Future of Work with AI Agents:
Auditing Automation and Augmentation Potential across the U.S. Workforce
Yijia Shao*, Humishka Zope*, Yucheng Jiang, Jiaxin Pei, David Nguyen,
Erik Brynjolfsson, Diyi Yang
Stanford University
{shaoyj, diyiy}@cs.stanford.edu
Data & Code:futureofwork.saltlab.stanford.edu
Abstract
The rapid rise of compound AI systems (a.k.a., AI agents) is reshaping the labor market, raising concerns about
job displacement, diminished human agency, and overreliance on automation. Yet, we lack a systematic under-
standing of the evolving landscape. In this paper, we address this gap by introducing a novel auditing framework
to assess which occupational tasks workers want AI agents to automate or augment, and how those desires align
with the current technological capabilities. Our framework features an audio-enhanced mini-interview to cap-
ture nuanced worker desires and introduces the Human Agency Scale (HAS) as a shared language to quantify the
preferred level of human involvement. Using this framework, we construct the WORKBank database, building
on the U.S. Department of Labor’s O*NET database, to capture preferences from 1,500 domain workers and capa-
bility assessments from AI experts across over 844 tasks spanning 104 occupations. Jointly considering the desire
and technological capability divides tasks in WORKBank into four zones: Automation “Green Light” Zone,
Automation “Red Light” Zone, R&D Opportunity Zone, Low Priority Zone. This highlights critical mismatches
and opportunities for AI agent development. Moving beyond a simple automate-or-not dichotomy, our results
reveal diverse HAS profiles across occupations, reflecting heterogeneous expectations for human involvement.
Moreover, our study offers early signals of how AI agent integration may reshape the core human competencies,
shifting from information-focused skills to interpersonal ones. These findings underscore the importance of
aligning AI agent development with human desires and preparing workers for evolving workplace dynamics.
1 Introduction
Rapid advances in foundation models, such as large language models (LLMs), have catalyzed
growing interest in AI agents: goal-directed systems equipped with tool access and multi-step
execution capabilities. Unlike standalone models, these agents can perform complex workflows and
are increasingly positioned to take on roles across a broad range of professional domains (Jiang et al.,
2024, Shao et al., 2024a, Wang et al., 2024b, Yang et al., 2024, Yao et al., 2024). Their integration into
occupational settings is already beginning to shape the labor market (Demirci et al., 2025, Hoffmann
et al., 2024). For example, research indicates that around 80% of U.S. workers may see LLMs affect
at least 10% of their tasks, with 19% potentially seeing over half impacted (Eloundou et al., 2023).
Usage data from Anthropic indicates that in early 2025, at least some workers in 36% of occupations
alreadywere using AI for at least 25% of their tasks (Handa et al., 2025).
*Equal Contribution
1
arXiv:2506.06576v3  [cs.CY]  1 Feb 2026

While AI adoption in the workplace has shown promise in boosting productivity, it also raises con-
cerns about job displacement, reduced human agency, and overreliance on automation (Hazra et al.,
2025). Despite this critical impact, we lack a systematic and grounded understanding of the evolving
landscape. From a coverage perspective, prior research often focuses on a few domains like software
engineering (Hoffmann et al., 2024) and customer support (Brynjolfsson et al., 2025). This narrow scope
limits our comprehension of the real-world complexity of diverse human jobs and the varied nature
of open-ended tasks. From a stakeholder perspective, existing studies often emphasize the interests of
capital by focusing on a few tasks that tend to be more profitable such as coding without adequately
considering worker values (Eisfeldt et al., 2023). Furthermore, current approaches often rely on analyz-
ing existing usage data, such as how people use chatbots for work (Hazra et al., 2025, Zhao et al., 2024),
which cannot provide a forward-looking assessment of AI potential across the broader workforce.
To address these gaps, we propose a principled, survey-based framework to investigate which occupa-
tional tasks workers want AI agents to automate or augment. We look at the entire workforce that could
be impacted by digital AI agents by sourcing occupational tasks from the U.S. Department of Labor’s
O*NET database. Compared to occupation-level studies, task-level auditing allows us to better capture
the nuanced, open-ended, and contextual nature of real-world work. Our auditing framework takes
a worker-centric approach by soliciting first-hand insights from domain workers actively performing
the tasks. To guide domain workers in providing well-calibrated responses, we empower them to share
their experiences and articulate their reasoning through an audio-enhanced survey system. Crucially,
our framework expands beyond the binary view of automation. We propose the Human Agency Scale
(i.e., H1-H5), which complements the SAE L0-L5 automation levels (Committee et al., 2014) by quantify-
ing the degree of human involvement required for occupational task completion and quality. This new
scale centers human agency—a crucial factor for responsible AI agent adoption (Fanni et al., 2023)—
and provides a shared language to capture the spectrum between automation and augmentation.
To ground workers’ perspectives in technical reality, we further gather complementary assessments
from AI experts with experience in agent research and development (R&D). This dual approach
reveals how workers and experts perceive AI agents’ capabilities and risks at work. Based on data
collected through January 2025 to May 2025, we construct the AI AgentWorkerOutlook &Readiness
Knowledge Bank (WORKBank). This database currently consists of responses from 1,500 workers
across 104 occupations and annotations from 52 AI experts, covering 844 occupational tasks. It is
designed to be easily extensible to more tasks and to reflect evolving technological capabilities and
worker preferences. To our knowledge, this is the first large-scale audit of AI agent capabilities and
worker preferences.
Our work contributes four sets of findings:
1. Domain workers want automation for low-value and repetitive tasks (Figure 4).For 46.1%
of tasks, workers express positive attitudes toward AI agent automation, even after reflecting
on potential job loss concerns and work enjoyment. The primary motivation for automation is
freeing up time for high-value work, though trends vary significantly by sector.
2. We visualize the desire-capability landscape of AI agents at work, and find critical mismatches
(Figure 5).The worker desire and technological capability divide the landscape into four zones:
Automation “Green Light” Zone (high desire and capability), Automation “Red Light” Zone
(high capability but low desire), R&D Opportunity Zone (high desire but currently low capabil-
ity), and Low Priority Zone (low desire and low capability). Notably, 41.0% of Y Combinator
company-task mappings are concentrated in the Low Priority Zone and Automation “Red
Light” Zone. Current investments mainly center around software development and business
2

analysis, leaving many promising tasks within the “Green Light” Zone and Opportunity Zone
under-addressed.
3. The Human Agency Scale provides a shared language to audit AI use at work and reveals
distinct patterns across occupations (Figure 6).45.2% of occupations have H3 (equal partnership)
as the dominant worker-desired level, underscoring the potential for human-agent collaboration.
However, workers generally prefer higher levels of human agency, potentially foreshadowing
friction as AI capabilities advance.
4. Key human skills are shifting from information processing to interpersonal competence
(Figure 7).By mapping tasks to core skills and comparing their associated wages and required
human agency, we find that traditionally high-wage skills like analyzing information are becom-
ing less emphasized, while interpersonal and organizational skills are gaining more importance.
Additionally, there is a trend toward requiring broader skill sets from individuals. These patterns
offer early signals of how AI agent integration may reshape core competencies.
2 Auditing Framework
To investigate how AI agents may integrate into professional work, we develop a task-level,
survey-based auditing framework that captures both worker preferences and technological feasibility
across the automation–augmentation spectrum. We begin by outlining a few key design principles
of our framework before examining each one in detail.
2.1 Defining Audit Granularity and Scope
Our framework focuses oncomplex, multi-step tasksassociated with specific occupations (e.g.,
“Marketing Managers: Compile lists describing product or service offerings”), sourced from the
O*NET database. These tasks, unlike isolated, low-level activities (e.g., “track goods or materials”
or “translate information”), reflect actual job responsibilities and the kinds of workflows AI agents
are poised to impact. Moreover, compared with occupation-level analysis, conducting the audit at
the task level enables a more nuanced understanding, as tasks within the same profession can vary
significantly and are often highly contextualized.
We scope our audit to computer-compatible tasks, recognizing their susceptibility tofoundation model-
powered AI agents. Drawing from historical and recent literature on agent autonomy (Castelfranchi,
1994, Russell and Norvig, 1995, Wooldridge and Jennings, 1995), planning capabilities, and tool
use (Mitchell et al., 2025), we define AI agents (excluding physical robots) as:“A system or program
capable of autonomously performing tasks on behalf of a user or another system by designing its workflow and
utilizing available software tools, without the ability to perform physical actions.”
2.2 Emphasizing the Spectrum of Automation and Augmentation
Traditional technology impact studies often ask:To what degree can this task be automated?Besides this
view of automation, we consider the view of augmentation—where technology complements and
enhances human capabilities (Autor, 2015), as this new wave of technology holds significant potential
to augment human workers through human-agent collaboration, enhancing both productivity and
work quality. While augmentation has been discussed in prior work (Brynjolfsson, 2022, Handa et al.,
2025), there is no established framework for quantifying automation vs. augmentation. To fill this gap
and provide a shared language, we introduce the Human Agency Scale (HAS) (Figure 2), a five-level
scale from H1 (no human involvement) to H5 (human involvement essential):
3

Potential Shift in
Core Human Skills
Autonomous Agent
Desire-Capability Landscape
Systematicity of 
Worker-centered Needs
Augmentation
Job Security
Enjoyment
Physical Action
Domain Expertise
Uncertainty
Interpersonal
Communication
Automation
T o what extent do current AI 
systems support automating this 
task?
If an AI system can do this task for 
you completely, how much do you 
want it to do it for you?
If an AI system were to assist in this
task, how much collaboration
between workers and the AI system
would be needed to complete this
task effectively?
If an AI system were to assist in this 
task, how much collaboration
between you and the AI system 
would be needed to complete this 
task effectively?
Auditing Framework With Audio Interface
WORKBank
Findings
52 AI Experts
1,500 Domain Workers
Across 104 Occupations
2,131 Tasks
Performable on Computers
Filter Occupations Filter Tasks
Compliance Ofﬁcers: Issue licences to individuals
meeting standards.
Customs Brokers: Monitor or trace the location of
goods.
Fundraisers: Write and send letters of thanks 
to donors.
Human Agency Scale
Spectrum
Occupational Task Rank
Automation Desire
Automation Desire
T echnological Capability
1. Schedule appointments with clients
2. Maintain ﬁles of information...
3. Issue and record adjustments to...
Human Agency Scale (HAS)
Rating Percentage
H1 H2 H3 H4 H5
Worker Desire
AI Expert
Assessment
Computer Programmers
842. Write stories
843. Contact potential vendors to...
844. Trace lost baggage for customers
Wage Human
Agency
Analyzing Information
Training, T eaching Others
Documenting Information
Figure 1:Overview of the auditing framework and key insights.The framework captures dual
perspectives on automation and augmentation by eliciting both worker desires and expert assessments
of technological capabilities. It guides participant reasoning through structured prompts and an
audio-enhanced interface. We instantiate this framework to build the WORKBank database, enabling
a data-driven analysis of worker-centered needs, the desire–capability landscape, the Human Agency
Scale (HAS) spectrum, and implications for core human skills.
• H1: AI agent handles the task entirely on its own.
• H2: AI agent needs minimal human input for optimal performance.
• H3: AI agent and human form equal partnership, outperforming either alone.
• H4: AI agent requires human input to successfully complete the task.
• H5: AI agent cannot function without continuous human involvement.
Unlike SAE driving automation levels (Committee et al., 2014) that adopt an “AI-first” perspective,
HAS provides a human-centered lens for assessing both task properties and appropriate agent develop-
ment approaches. Importantly, higher HAS levels are not inherently better—different levels suit differ-
ent AI roles. Tasks at H1-H2 favor automation approaches, while H3-H5 tasks benefit from augmenta-
4

AI Agent Drives Task Completion
The AI agent takes primary reponsibility for task 
execution with no or minimal human oversight.
Human Drives Task Completion
The human takes primary responsibility for task 
execution with varying levels of AI assistance.
Equal Partnership
The human and the AI 
agent collaborate closely 
throughout the task.
T eam 
Dynamics
Automation
AI replaces human capabilities
Augmentation
AI enhances human capabilitiesAI Role
AI agent handles the 
task entirely on its own 
without your 
involvement.
AI agent needs your 
input at a few key 
points to achieve better 
task performance.
T ask completion fully 
relies on your 
involvement.
AI agent and you work 
together to outperform 
either alone.
Required 
Human 
Involvement
AI agent needs your 
input to successfully 
complete the task.
Example 
Tasks
• T ranscribe data to 
worksheets and 
enter data into 
computer.
• Run monthly 
network reports.
• Devise trading, 
option, or hedge 
strategies.
• Accept payment on 
accounts.
• Create core game 
features, including 
storylines, role-play 
mechanics, etc.
• Compile and analyze 
experimental data 
and adjust 
experimental 
designs as necessary.
• Coordinate and 
direct the financial 
planning, budgeting, 
procurement, or 
investment activities.
• Design, plan, 
organize, or direct 
orientation and 
training programs.
• Participate in online 
forums or 
conferences to stay 
abreast of online 
retailing trends, 
techniques, or 
security threats.
HAS H1
 HAS H2
 HAS H3
 HAS H4
 HAS H5
Figure 2:Levels of Human Agency Scale (HAS).We introduce the Human Agency Scale (i.e., H1-
H5) to quantify the team dynamics and degree of human involvement required. HAS provides a
shared language to quantify automation vs. augmentation, complementing the traditionally “AI-first”
perspective used in defining levels of automation. Importantly, higher HAS levels are not inherently
better—different levels suit different AI roles.
tion strategies. Understanding the ideal level of human involvement is essential both for workers seek-
ing to adapt their skills and for developers aiming to build context-appropriate AI agents. For instance,
fully autonomous agents shall be developed for H1 scenarios, while those agents for H3 scenarios must
support meaningful coordination and communication with human collaborators (Shao et al., 2024b).
This five-level human agency scale (H1-H5) helps categorize tasks where AI is more suitable for
automation (H1-H2) versus augmentation (H3-H5), where human agency remains critical.
2.3 Constructing A Worker-Centric Auditing Framework
Our auditing framework centers on the needs of workers. To support domain workers in providing
well-calibrated feedback, we enable them to share their experiences and explain their thought
processes using an audio-supported survey system. Concretely, for each taskt, we first collect worker
ratings onautomation desireA w(t)anddesired HAS levelH w(t)using a 5-point Likert scale.
Likert Question for Collecting Automation Desire
If an AI system can do this task for you completely, how much do you want it to do it for you?
1: Not at all; 2: Slightly; 3: Moderately; 4: A lot; 5: Entirely
5

Likert Question for Collecting Desired HAS Level
If an AI system were to assist in this task, how much collaboration between you and the AI system would be needed
to complete this task effectively?
1: No Collaboration Needed (Human Agency Scale H1);
2: Limited Collaboration Needed (Human Agency Scale H2);
3: Moderate Collaboration Needed (Human Agency Scale H3);
4: Considerable Collaboration Needed (Human Agency Scale H4);
5: Essential Collaboration Needed (Human Agency Scale H5)
To support thoughtful ratings, we also scaffold worker responses through three key designs (survey
details in Appendix A):
• Audio-enhanced Reflection: The survey begins with an audio-enhanced mini-interview ex-
ploring participants’ occupational work and AI perspectives. This spoken format enables more
natural reflection and helps workers more efficiently contextualize their ratings within their
actual work experience, compared to slowly typing their experiences.
• Quality Control via Task Familiarity Filtering: Workers receive only occupation-relevant tasks
and must confirm task familiarity before rating, ensuring assessments are grounded in their real
experience rather than speculation.
• Guided Consideration: Before rating both automation desireAw(t) and desired HAS levelHw(t),
participants consider factors identified in prior literature—enjoyment and job security concerns
for automation desire (Armstrong et al., 2024, Gödöllei and Beck, 2023), and task characteristics
like physical actions, domain expertise requirements, uncertainty, and interpersonal elements
for HAS preferences (Frank et al., 2019, Parasuraman, 2000, Shah and White, 2024).
2.4 Ensuring Dual Perspectives from Both Domain Workers and AI Experts
While worker perspectives provide invaluable insights into the social demand and acceptance of
AI agents, they represent only one side of the integration equation. Domain workers, despite their
deep task expertise, may have limited exposure to current AI capabilities and constraints. Thus,
we complement workers’ perspectives with expert assessments ofcurrent automation capabilityAe(t)
andfeasible HAS level He(t) from AI researchers and practitioners. This dual perspective reveals the
readiness for AI agent integration and allows us to identify alignment or gaps between worker desires
and technological feasibility.
Concretely, these experts assess Ae(t) and He(t) using the same rubrics, drawing on their under-
standing of existing systems’ strengths and limitations. ContrastingAw(t), Hw(t) and Ae(t), He(t)
enables us to understand what require future breakthroughs, identify alignments and misalignments
between worker preferences and technological development, and inform development priorities.
2.5 Instantiating the Audit Framework to Derive WORKBank
Taking into account these aforementioned design principles together, we then apply our auditing
framework to developWorkerOutlook &ReadinessKnowledge Bank (WORKBank). Concretely, we
source computer-compatible tasks performed at least monthly from the U.S. Department of Labor’s
O*NET Database (details in Appendix C.1). These tasks reflect complex, multi-step workflows central
to our focus. For example, the task “Credit Analysts: Analyze credit data and financial statements
to determine the degree of risk involved in extending credit or lending money” entails data analysis,
risk evaluation, and decision-making. After filtering, 2,131 tasks across 287 occupations remain.
6

a Coverage Amongst All US Workforce Sectors
Computer and Mathematical
Business and Financial Operations
Office and Administrative Support
Management
Arts, Designs, and Media
Architecture and Engineering
Life Physical and Social Science
Sales and Related
Educational Instruction and Library
Legal
Healthcare Practitioners and Technical
Healthcare Support
Production
Food Preparation and Serving*
Farming Fishing and Forestry*
Installation Maintenance and Repair*
Construction and Extraction*
Personal Care and Service*
Community and Social Service*
Cleaning and Maintenance*
Protective Service*
Transportation and Material Moving*
b Coverage Amongst Sectors of Included Occupations
Computer and Mathematical
Business and Financial Operations
Office and Administrative Support
Management
Arts, Designs, and Media
Architecture and Engineering
Life Physical and Social Science
Sales and Related
Educational Instruction and Library
Legal
Healthcare Support
Healthcare Practitioners and Technical
Production
0% 25%5% 10% 15% 20% 0% 40%10% 20% 30%
Percentage of Workers Percentage of Workers
Figure 3:Sector-level distribution of workers in the WORKBank database compared to U.S.
workforce statistics from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. a, Comparison between WORKBank worker
distribution and the U.S. workforce employment statistics across all sectors (sectors not included in
WORKBank marked with an asterisk).b, Comparison between WORKBank worker distribution and
the U.S. workforce employment statistics limited to the 104 occupations included in our database.
We developed an IRB-approved, self-hosted survey interface and distributed it through crowdsourc-
ing platforms and targeted LinkedIn outreach. Between January and May 2025, recruitment through
Prolific, Upwork, and LinkedIn yielded 1,678 participants who provided 7,016 task ratings. After
filtering for adequate representation (≥10 participants per occupation), we obtained assessments
from 1,500 individuals across 104 occupations and calculated average worker ratings Aw(t) and
Hw(t) for each task. We evaluate the representativeness of WORKBank by comparing its sector-level
distribution with U.S. workforce data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics (Appendix D.2). As
shown in Figure 3, the comparisons suggest that our database captures a broad and representative
cross-section of the U.S. workforce at the sector level.
For expert assessments, we recruited 52 AI experts—PhD researchers and industry practitioners with
experience in AI agent R&D. Each task was independently assessed by at least two experts, with
additional reviews ensuring rating consistency (standard deviation≤1). Inter-annotator agreement,
measured by Krippendorff’sα, was 0.539 forAe(t) and 0.511 for He(t) (see robustness analysis details
in Appendix B).
Combining these complementary data sources, we constructWorkerOutlook &Readiness
Knowledge Bank (WORKBank), the first database to capture both worker desires and AI agents’
technological capabilities for occupational tasks.
7

3 Results
Leveraging the rich data within WORKBank, we examine where workers most desire automation
by AI agents and where they resist it, whether current AI capabilities and R&D align with these
preferences, what opportunities exist for AI to augment rather than replace human labor, and how
the presence of AI agents might reshape the demand for human skills.
3.1 Worker-centered Views on Occupational Task Automation
Computer and Mathematical
 Management
Business and Financial Operations
 Arts, Designs, and Media
969 874 667Automating the task would free up 
my time for high-value work.
605 573 508This task is repetitive or tedious.
646 598 442Automating this task would improve 
the quality of my work.
333 332 258The task is stressful or mentally 
draining.
286 238 159This task is complicated or difficult.
a Automation Desire Score Over 844 Tasks Across 104 Occupations
b Selected Reasons for Responses with Automation Desire (𝑨𝒘(𝒕)) ≥ 3 (N=3,618) 
𝐴𝑤(𝑡) = 5
𝐴𝑤(𝑡) = 4
𝐴𝑤(𝑡) = 3
1.26%
c Percentage of Usage on Claude.ai
(Dec 2024–Jan 2025)
T op 10 
Occupations by 
Average 
Automation 
Desire
1. Tax Preparers: Schedule appointments with clients.  
𝐴𝑤 𝑡 = 5.00
2. Public Safety T elecommunicators: Maintain files of 
information relating to emergency calls. 𝐴𝑤 𝑡 = 4.67
3. Timekeeping Clerks: Issue and record adjustments to 
pay related to previous errors. 𝐴𝑤 𝑡 = 4.60
842. Editors: Write text, such as stories, articles, editorials, or 
newsletters. 𝐴𝑤 𝑡 = 1.60
843. Logistics Analysts: Contact potential vendors to 
determine material availability. 𝐴𝑤 𝑡 = 1.50
844. Ticket Agents and Travel Clerks: T race lost, delayed, or 
misdirected baggage for customers. 𝐴𝑤 𝑡 = 1.50
Figure 4:First-hand data from domain workers reveals positive attitudes towards AI agent au-
tomation on certain occupational tasks, particularly due to perceived benefits such as freeing up
time for high-value work. However, the sentiment varies notably across sectors. a, Automation
desire scores Aw(t) over 844 occupational tasks, ranked based on WORKBank data, together with
sector-specific breakdowns. The distribution indicates a mixed attitude, revealing high diversity of
needs and preferences of workers that should be considered in AI agent R&D.b, Reported reasons for
responses with Aw(t)≥3 . The most selected reason—“Automating the task would free up my time
for high-value work”—accounts for 69.38% of the responses.c, Comparison with usage data from
Claude.ai, a LLM-based chatbot (Dec 2024-Jan 2025, from Handa et al. (2025)), shows that the top 10
occupations with the highest average automation desire represent only 1.26% of total usage. This
highlights the importance of directly soliciting worker input, as usage data may lag behind actual
workplace needs.
8

Where do workers desire AI agent automation?We first examine domain workers’ attitudes
toward automating their occupational tasks. In Figure 4a, we rank tasks by their average worker
automation desire scores Aw(t). We find that for 46.1% of tasks, workers currently performing
them express a positive attitude (i.e., Aw(t)>3 ) toward AI agent automation, even after explicitly
considering concerns such as job loss and reduced enjoyment, as guided by our auditing framework.
On the other hand, the distribution indicates a mixed attitude, with 7.11% tasks receivingAw(t)≥4
and 6.16% receivingAw(t)≤2 . To better understand these preferences, Figure 4baggregates selected
reasons given for pro-automation responses (Aw(t)≥3 ). The most cited motivation—“freeing up
time for high-value work”—was selected in 69.38% of cases. Other common reasons include task
repetitiveness (46.6%), stressfulness (25.5%), and opportunities for quality improvement (46.6%).
The overall pattern suggests that AI agents could play a supportive role, enabling workers to offload
low-value or burdensome tasks, rather than serving as replacements in a zero-sum dynamic.
Does existing LLM usage reflect worker desires?Notably, when we compare our findings with
usage data from Claude.ai, an LLM-based chatbot used between Dec 2024 and Jan 2025 (Handa et al.,
2025), we find that the top 10 occupations with the highest average automation desire account for
only 1.26% of total usage. This mismatch highlights a disconnect: occupations where workers most
desire automation are currently underrepresented in LLM usage. This suggests that existing usage
patterns may be skewed toward early adopters or specific job types, rather than reflecting broader
demand. Such a gap reinforces the value of our worker-centric audit, which surfaces latent needs
that may not yet appear in usage logs.
Where do workers resist AI agent automation?We analyze audio response data using LLM-based
topic modeling to identify the primary concerns workers expressed regarding the use of AI agents
in their work (see Appendix F.1). Among our survey participants, 28.0% expressed fears, concerns,
or negative sentiment when answering the question “How do you envision using AI in your daily
work?”. Among these workers, the three most prominent concerns identified are: (1) lack of trust
in AI systems’ accuracy, capability, or reliability (45.0%), (2) fear of job replacement (23.0%), and (3)
the absence of human qualities or capabilities in AI (16.3%).
When discussing the absence of human qualities, workers express specific concerns about losing
a “human touch” in their work, diminishing creative control, and the desire to maintain agency in
decision-making. This sentiment echoes our quantitative findings from the breakdown of automation
desire scores across sectors (Figure 4a). In these sector-level breakdowns, the “Arts, Designs,
and Media” sector stands out, with only 17.1% of tasks receiving positive desire ratings (>3 on a
5-point Likert scale). Audio responses from participants in this sector reveal nuanced opposition
to automating content creation, such as: “I want it to be used for seamlessly maximizing workflow and,
you know, making things less repetitive and tedious and arduous with workflow. No content creation,” “I would
never use AI to like replace artists. I would be more for personal [project management] use, if anything,” “AI
can be a game-changer in data architect workflow, helping to improve efficiency, accuracy and even creativity.
But I create my design by myself. For research, I use AI”.
3.2 Desire-Capability Landscape for AI Agents in the Workplace
Contrasting worker and AI expert perspectives delineate four task zones.While workers’
preferences offer valuable guidance for socially beneficial AI agent deployment, delivering impact ul-
timately depends on aligning those preferences with technical feasibility. To investigate this, we jointly
consider the worker-rated automation desire Aw(t) and expert-assessed technological capability
Ae(t), visualized as a desire-capability landscape in Figure 5a. This landscape divides into four zones:
9

Automation “Green Light” Zone
Automation “Red Light” Zone
R&D Opportunity Zone
Low Priority Zone
Tax Preparers: 
Schedule 
appointments 
with clients.
Quality Control 
System 
Managers: 
Check regularly 
reported quality 
control data.
Mechanical 
Engineers:
Read and 
interpret reports.
Logistics Analysts: 
Contact potential 
vendors to 
determine material 
availability.
Court, Municipal 
Clerks: Prepare 
meeting agendas.
Computer 
Network 
Support 
Specialists: 
Research 
hardware or 
software 
products.
Computer 
Scientists: 
Approve, 
prepare, monitor, 
and adjust 
operational 
budgets.
Video Game 
Designers: 
Create 
production 
schedules, 
prototyping 
goals with 
production 
stuffs.
Technical 
Writers: 
Arrange for 
distribution 
of material.
Media 
Technical 
Managers: 
Observe 
pictures 
through 
monitors.
Art Directors: 
Present final 
layouts to 
clients.
Ticket Agents: 
Trace lost, delayed, 
or misdirected 
baggage for 
customers.
a Automation Desire-Capability Landscape
b Average Number 
of Y Combinator 
Companies per Task 
by Desire–
Capability Zone
(Cut-off Date:
April 28, 2025)
134.35
117.63
118.87
134.57
120.70
170.89
118.08
106.32
Computer and Mathematical Management
Business and Financial Operations Arts, Designs, and Media
47.4%13.3%
13.3% 25.4%
42.4%18.5%
8.7% 30.4%
51.2%7.6%
10.6% 30.6%
9.8%11.0%
31.7% 47.6%
c  Average Number 
of AI Agent 
Research Papers 
per Task by Desire–
Capability Zone
(Cut-off Date:
April 24, 2025)
Figure 5:Integrating worker and AI expert perspectives divides the automation landscape into four
zones: Automation “Green Light” Zone, Automation “Red Light” Zone, R&D Opportunity Zone,
and Low Priority Zone. a, Tasks from WORKBank are plotted in this desire-capability landscape.
b, We collect Y Combinator (YC) companies and map them to tasks based on the description on
their official YC detail pages usinggpt-4.1-mini. The average number of YC companies per task
shows no significant difference across zones, highlighting the importance of steering more investment
toward the Automation “Green Light” Zone and R&D Opportunity Zone.c, We collect AI agent
research papers from arXiv and evaluate their applicability to each occupational task in our database
using gpt-4.1-mini. Encouragingly, the paper-task mappings are concentrated more in the R&D
Opportunity Zone, though increased emphasis on this area remains desirable.
1. Automation “Green Light” Zone: Tasks with both high automation desire and high capability.
These are prime candidates for AI agent deployment with the potential for broad productivity
and societal gains.
2. Automation “Red Light” Zone: Tasks with high capability but low desire. Deployment here
warrants caution, as it may face worker resistance or pose broader negative societal implications.
3. R&D Opportunity Zone: Tasks with high desire but currently low capability. These represent
promising directions for AI research and development.
4. Low Priority Zone: Tasks with both low desire and low capability. These are less urgent for AI
agent development.
Tasks from WORKBank are broadly distributed across the landscape, with no strong correlation
between Aw(t) and Ae(t) (Spearman ρ= 0.17, p <1e−6 ). Overall, automation desire shows a negative
10

correlation with both job loss concern (Spearmanρ=−0.22 , p <5e−11 ) and enjoyment (Spearman
ρ=−0.28 , p <3e−17 ). This suggests both alignments and misalignments between worker desires
and technological capabilities, with a consistent pattern: workers are less inclined to have AI agents
automate tasks they enjoy or feel vulnerable about potential job loss, consistent with findings from
prior literature (Armstrong et al., 2024, Gödöllei and Beck, 2023).
Mapping investment to the desire-capability landscape reveals critical mismatches.To better
understand where current investments are concentrated, we used Y Combinator (YC) companies1
as a proxy and mapped them to the tasks in our database using gpt-4.1-mini (one company
could be mapped to multiple tasks, see Appendix C.4 for details). As shown in Figure 5b, the
company-task mappings are relatively evenly spread across the four zones. Most mapped tasks are
concentrated in occupations related to software development and business analysis, with the top
five occupations being: Computer and Information Systems Managers, Computer Programmers,
Computer Systems Engineers/Architects, Software Quality Assurance Analysts and Testers, and
Business Intelligence Analysts. 41.0% of YC companies are mapped to Low Priority and Automation
“Red Light” Zone; while many promising tasks within the “Green Light” Zone and Opportunity Zone
remain under-addressed by current investments.
AI agent research papers show an emphasis on the R&D Opportunity Zone, but remain concentrated
on a limited set of tasks.Following a similar methodology, we gathered research papers related to
AI agents from arXiv2 and analyzed their alignment with various tasks to determine the distribution of
research efforts. Figure 5cshows that research papers are more concentrated in the R&D Opportunity
Zone. While encouraging, the focus remains largely confined to computer science and engineering
domains. The top three tasks covered are: (1) Computer and Information Research Scientists: Apply
theoretical expertise and innovation to create or apply new technology, such as adapting principles
for applying computers to new uses (1,169 papers); (2) Computer and Information Research Scientists:
Analyze problems to develop solutions involving computer hardware and software (1,132 papers);
(3) Computer Programmers: Perform or direct revision, repair, or expansion of existing programs to
increase operating efficiency or adapt to new requirements (1,109 papers). These findings highlight the
need to expand research efforts beyond a few domains to better support tasks in the R&D Opportunity
Zone, ensuring that future AI agents address a wider range of high-desire, high-impact opportunities.
3.3 Human Agency Scale (HAS) Spectrum
Beyond automation, AI agents hold promise for augmenting human work. To understand where and
how this augmentation may occur, we analyze the distribution of both worker-desired HAS levels
(Hw(t)) and expert-assessed feasible HAS levels (He(t)) across tasks within each occupation.
Where do worker desires and expert assessments diverge most on the Human Agency Scale?
Each task in WORKBank is assigned a worker-desired and expert-rated HAS level via majority vote.
Among 844 tasks, 26.9% receive matching levels from workers and AI experts. Figure 6ashows
workers generally prefer higher levels of human agency than what experts deem technologically
necessary, with 47.5% of tasks fall into the lower triangle of the matrix. To quantify this divergence,
we compute the Jensen-Shannon Distance (JSD) between the distributions ofHw(t) and He(t)T at the
occupation level. Disagreements are most pronounced in the lower HAS range as Table 7 shows that
five of the ten occupations with the highest JSD scores are also those that experts rate as H1 dominant.
1https://www.ycombinator.com/companies
2http://arxiv.org
11

a Distribution of T asks by Worker-Desired and 
Expert-Assessed Feasible HAS Levels
Physical Action
Uncertainty
Domain
Expertise
Interpersonal
Communication
c T ask Characteristics by Worker Ratings d T ask Characteristics by AI Expert Ratings
Tasks in H5 by 
Worker Desire
All Occupations
Tasks in H5 by 
Expert Assessment
All Occupations
b Percentage of Occupations Grouped by 
Dominant Worker-Desired HAS Level
H1H2H3H4H5
Worker-Desired 
Level
Expert-Rated 
Feasible Level
Physical Action
Uncertainty
Domain
Expertise
Interpersonal
Communication
H1: 1.9%
H2: 35.6%
H3: 45.2%H4: 16.3%
H5: 1.0%
32
112
61
19
1
34
102
114
41
5
30
63
71
30
11
7
36
34
22
7
0
4
7
1
0
Figure 6:Distributions on the Human Agency Scale (HAS) reveal diverse patterns of AI agent
integration across occupations and underscore opportunities for human–agent collaboration. a,
Comparison between worker-desired HAS levels (Hw(t)) and expert-assessed feasible HAS levels
(He(t)) shows that workers generally prefer higher levels of human agency than what experts deem
technologically necessary.b, Distribution of occupations by their dominant worker-desired HAS
level shows that most occupations cluster around H3 and helps identify occupations that are at the
poles of the agency spectrum. Each subplot displays the task-level distributions of worker-desired
and expert-assessed HAS levels for a given occupation. Jensen-Shannon divergence (JSD) quantifies
the difference between these distributions (see top 10 in Table 7). Full occupation-level results are
shown in Figure 10.c, Radar plot of task characteristics based on worker ratings indicates that tasks in
the H5 region are particularly associated with Interpersonal Communication.d, Radar plot based
on expert ratings shows that tasks in H5 are marked by strong Interpersonal Communication and
Domain Expertise components.
This signals potential frictions as AI adoption progresses. Ensuring socially responsible deployment
of AI agents and supporting workers currently performing low-HAS tasks warrant further scrutiny.
What are the common patterns across the Human Agency Scale spectrum?As illustrated in
Figure 6b(with full results in Figure 10), many occupations (e.g., “Sustainability Specialists”, “Energy
Engineers”) exhibit an inverted-U shaped distribution for bothHw(t) and He(t). While this trend in
expert assessments might reflect current technological limitations—i.e., AI agents are not yet capable
of fully replacing human involvement in most tasks—it is notable that workers in many domains also
prefer a balanced, collaborative partnership with AI. H3 emerges as the dominant worker-desired
level in 47 out of 104 occupations analyzed.
12

Which occupations stand out on the Human Agency Scale?Beyond the general inverted-U trend,
we examine occupations at the extremes of the HAS spectrum. Lower HAS levels signify areas
of greater potential AI exposure. According to AI experts’ ratings, 16 out of 104 occupations are
predominantly H1, even based on current capability estimates. These include roles such as “Computer
Programmers”, “Proofreaders and Copy Makers”, and “Travel Agents”. Occupations within the
same sector also exhibit distinct trends in HAS levels. For example, “Computer Programmers” and
“Information Technology Project Managers” display markedly different distributions (H1 vs. H4)
when assessed by AI experts. Compared to Eloundou et al. (2023), which provides an early analysis
of LLMs’ labor market impact and finds higher-wage occupations to be more exposed, our results
show that while most occupations in WORKBank are indeed exposed to AI agents and do not fall into
H5 (essential human involvement), those involving more routine tasks and easily verifiable outcomes
tend to require lower human agency.
Very few occupations are characterized by a dominant HAS Level 5 (indicating essential human
involvement). “Editors” is the only occupation where workers predominantly desire H5. According
to AI expert assessments, only “Mathematicians” and “Aerospace Engineers” fall into this category.
Representative work descriptions from worker transcripts for these occupations are provided in
Appendix F.2. We further investigate what distinguishes H5 tasks. Among the four quantitative
dimensions in our auditing framework (Figure 1), worker ratings highlight Interpersonal Communi-
cation as a defining feature of H5 tasks (Figure 6c), while expert ratings emphasize both Interpersonal
Communication and Domain Expertise (Figure 6d).
What forms of human-agent collaboration do workers envision?Figure 6bsuggests strong poten-
tial for collaborative AI. Our analysis of audio transcripts supports this: the vast majority of workers
express either a desire or openness to collaborating with AI to enhance their work. Analyzing these
narratives further illustrates how workers concretely envision human–agent partnerships. The most
common paradigm is “role-based” AI support (described by 23.1% of workers), where individuals
anticipateutilizing AI systems that embody specific roles or personalized functions(“[I would like to have
an AI agent] trained to automatically analyze the quality control reports of raw sequencing data (e.g., FastQC
output) and flag potential issues with specific samples or sequencing runs, [...] and suggesting appropriate pre-
processing steps.” “It’s just for me to set up my AI.”). Furthermore, 23.0% of workers express a desire for
AI systems to function as a supportive assistant for some or all aspects of their workflow (“[I envision
the AI agent] as an assistant who is doing research for me. However, I review every answer because we cannot
rely on its accuracy.”), while 16.5% mention pure automation by AI for some aspects of their workflow.
3.4 The Potential Shift of Core Human Skills
Variation in Human Agency Scale (HAS) across occupations suggests that certain types of human
work are more susceptible to automation, while others hold greater potential for augmentation. To
this end, we examine the characteristics of tasks that require high human agency to understand how
AI agents may shift skill demands.
Translating task-level changes into implications for education and skill training has long been a key
lens for analyzing technological transformation, notably pioneered by Autor et al. (2003) in the wave
of computers. To operationalize this lens, we align each task with its related skills (Generalized Work
Activities) as defined by O*NET (Appendix E.6). For example, the task “Financial Managers: Approve,
reject, or coordinate the approval or rejection of lines of credit or commercial, real estate, or personal
loans” will be mapped to “making decisions and solving problems” and “guiding, directing, and moti-
vating subordinates”. We compute the average expert-assessed human agency levelHe(t) for each skill
to estimate the degree of human involvement required as AI agents enter the workplace. We also com-
13

Analyzing Data or Information
Updating and Using Relevant Knowledge
Developing Objectives and Strategies
Guiding, Directing, and Motivating Subordinates
Judging the Qualities of Objects, Services, or People
Stafﬁng Organizational Units
Thinking Creatively
Monitoring Processes, Materials, or Surroundings
Providing Consultation and Advice to Others
Making Decisions and Solving Problems
Organizing, Planning, and Prioritizing Work
Communicating with Supervisors, Peers, or Subordinates
Interpreting the Meaning of Information for Others
Documenting/Recording Information
Getting Information
Selling or Inﬂuencing Others
Evaluating Information to Determine Compliance
Performing Administrative Activities
Establishing and Maintaining Relationships
Processing Information
Training and T eaching Others
Communicating with People Outside the Organization
Estimating the Quantiﬁable Characteristics of Products
Performing for or Working Directly with the Public
Monitoring and Controlling Resources
Assisting and Caring for Others
Scheduling Work and Activities
Analyzing Data or Information
Updating and Using Relevant Knowledge
Developing Objectives and Strategies
Guiding, Directing, and Motivating Subordinates
Judging the Qualities of Objects, Services, or People
Stafﬁng Organizational Units
Thinking Creatively
Monitoring Processes, Materials, or Surroundings
Providing Consultation and Advice to Others
Making Decisions and Solving Problems
Organizing, Planning, and Prioritizing Work
Communicating with Supervisors, Peers, or Subordinates
Interpreting the Meaning of Information for Others
Documenting/Recording Information
Getting Information
Selling or Inﬂuencing Others
Evaluating Information to Determine Compliance
Performing Administrative Activities
Establishing and Maintaining Relationships
Processing Information
Training and T eaching Others
Communicating with People Outside the Organization
Estimating the Quantiﬁable Characteristics of Products
Performing for or Working Directly with the Public
Monitoring and Controlling Resources
Assisting and Caring for Others
Scheduling Work and Activities
Ranked by Average Wage
(U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics May 2024)
Ranked by Average Required Human Agency
(WORKBank AI Expert Assessments)
Low
High
Wage
Low
High
Human
Agency
Figure 7:Comparing skill rankings by average wage and required human agency.Each line
represents a skill (Generalized Work Activity) mapped from O*NET tasks. Based on the skill-task
mapping, we compute the average wage using data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (May
2024) and the average expert-assessed human agency level He(t) to indicate the degree of human
involvement required as AI agents enter the workplace. Skills are ranked by average wage (left)
and average required human agency (right). The figure highlights the top five skills with the largest
upward (green) and downward (red) shifts in rank, suggesting a potential shift in valued workplace
skills—from information processing toward interpersonal and organizational competencies. See
Appendix E.6 for skill analysis details and full skill descriptions.
pute the average wage for each skill, using data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (Appendix C.2).
Wage serves as a proxy for the current economic value of each skill (Dey and Loewenstein, 2019).
As shown in Figure 7, by comparing skill rankings by average wage and required human agency,
our analysis reveals three emerging trends:
14

1. Shrinking demand for information-processing skills.Skills related to analyzing data and
updating knowledge—while common in today’s high-wage occupations (as shown in the left
side of Figure 7 in red color)—are less prominent in tasks that demand high human agency.
2.Greater emphasis on interpersonal and organizational skills.Skills involving human interac-
tion, coordination, and resource monitoring are more frequently associated with high-HAS tasks
(as shown in the left side of Figure 7 in green color), even if they are not currently prioritized in
wage-based evaluations.
3. High-agency skills span diverse aspects.The top 10 skills with the highest average required
human agency encompass a broad range, from interpersonal and organizational abilities to
decision-making and quality judgment.
These findings provide early signals of how AI agent integration may reshape core occupational
competencies. As workplace AI agents continue to evolve, longitudinal tracking of task-level changes
could yield further insights into how human roles and required skills evolve.
4 Related Work
Digital AI AgentsThe aspiration to build AI agents capable of dynamically directing their own
processes to accomplish complex goals dates back to the early days of artificial intelligence (Genesereth
and Nilsson, 1987, McCarthy, 1959). Recent advances in foundational models, particularly large
language models (LLMs), have sparked a surge in the development of digital AI agents that leverage
LLMs to plan actions and interface with external tools (Sumers et al., 2023, Wang et al., 2024a). These
agents have demonstrated the ability to carry out workflows across diverse domains, including
software engineering (Wang et al., 2024b, Yang et al., 2024), analytical writing (Jiang et al., 2024, Shao
et al., 2024a), and customer support (Yao et al., 2024).
While many of these agents are designed for full automation, they can also be structured to collaborate
with humans. Collaborative Gym (Shao et al., 2024b) pioneered the concept of human-agent
collaboration, demonstrating that for certain tasks, joint human-agent performance can surpass
that of fully autonomous agents, even when those agents are capable of completing the tasks
independently. This underscores the potential of AI agents to augment, rather than simply replace,
human labor (Brynjolfsson, 2022). The auditing framework proposed in this work systematically
examines augmentation versus automation by introducing the Human Agency Scale (HAS), which
evaluates the level of ideal human involvement across different workflows.
One limitation of prior work on AI agents is its frequent focus on a narrow set of domains. Existing
benchmarks, such as GAIA (Mialon et al., 2023), AgentBench (Liu et al., 2023), OSWorld (Xie et al.,
2024), while valuable for assessing agent capabilities, often rely on task collections that are curated in
a constrained manner. Such approach, while useful for capability evaluation, fails to provide a holistic
and worker-centric understanding of how these agents could be integrated into the broader workforce.
By sourcing tasks from the U.S. Department of Labor’s O*NET database, our work provides a more
comprehensive and systematic understanding of the potential landscape for digital AI agents.
The Economic Impacts of Generative AIA broad body of work in digital economics has examined
the implications of AI, spanning from early machine learning models (Brynjolfsson and Mitchell,
2017) and computer vision systems (Svanberg et al., 2024) to the recent surge of large language models
(LLMs) and generative AI (Demirci et al., 2025, Eloundou et al., 2023, Handa et al., 2025, Hoffmann et al.,
2024). Following the launch of ChatGPT, Eloundou et al. (2023) provided an early analysis of LLMs’
potential labor market impact, estimating that approximately 80% of the U.S. workforce has at least
some tasks exposed to LLM capabilities. However, their analysis did not incorporate the dimension of
15

worker desire and focused primarily on LLM via ChatGPT or the OpenAI playground rather than the
broader scope of AI agents. More recent work leveraging real user data from Claude.ai, a state-of-the-
art LLM chatbot, to identify which economic tasks users actually perform with AI (Handa et al., 2025).
In parallel, field studies in customer support organizations have shown that AI-assisted chatbots can
improve worker productivity (Brynjolfsson et al., 2025). As AI agents continue to evolve beyond stan-
dalone LLM chatbots, our study provides an early audit of their readiness for workplace integration.
5 Conclusion
Advancements in AI agents are unlocking a wide range of possibilities that may fundamentally
reshape the workplace. This paper presents the first large-scale audit of both worker desire and
technological capability for AI agents in the context of automation and augmentation. Based on
data collected between January and May 2025, we construct the WORKBank database and find that
domain workers generally express positive attitudes toward AI agent automation, particularly for
repetitive and low-value tasks.
By integrating both worker and expert perspectives, we introduce the automation desire–capability
landscape, which offers actionable insights for prioritizing AI agent research and investment. Besides
the traditional automate-or-not dichotomy, our Human Agency Scale (HAS) uncovers diverse
patterns of AI integration across occupations, with a dominant inverted-U trend that underscores
the potential for human–agent collaboration.
Beyond informing AI agent research and deployment strategies, our findings also have implications for
workforce development. As AI agents reshape the demand for core human skills, our findings suggest
that examining strategies for worker reskilling and retraining is a valuable direction for future research.
LimitationsWhile our audit offers a comprehensive snapshot of worker perspectives and
technological capabilities of workplace AI agents, several limitations should be considered:
First, our quantitative assessments are grounded in existing occupational tasks defined by the O*NET
database, which does not account for new tasks that may emerge as AI agents become more integrated
into the workplace. Further analysis of the open-ended worker transcripts could uncover emerging
task patterns and enrich our understanding of evolving occupational tasks.
Second, although we guided participants to reflect on potential job loss and task enjoyment, domain
workers may still lack full awareness of the evolving capabilities and limitations of AI agents (Hazra
et al., 2025), potentially shaping their responses. We partially mitigate this limitation by including
only occupations with at least 10 worker responses in the AI Agent WORKBank. Robustness checks
and further discussion are provided in Appendix B, and complement it with AI experts’ assessment.
From an incentive perspective, some workers may also withhold honest feedback due to concerns
about job security or surveillance. We recognize that this is a real concern, which is why we’re
committed to a worker-focused approach that surfaces real concerns and co-designs systems that
reflect workers’ values. We see such resistance as a critical input that helps guide responsible
deployment. By prioritizing workers’ perspectives, we enable workers to play an active role in
shaping the future of work, rather than just adapting to it.
Third, the current version of AI Agent WORKBank only covers 104 occupations, a subset of the 287
computer-using occupations identified with the O*NET database. In our study, we launched the
survey interface on Prolific, Upwork, and LinkedIn in January 2025 and concluded data collection
in May 2025 to ensure temporal consistency. These 104 occupations were retained after filtering
for adequate representation (≥10 participants per occupation). While our database exhibits strong
16

coverage and demographic representativeness (see Appendix D), our findings may not cover the
full picture of AI agents for the workplace.
Finally, the AI Agent WORKBank reflects the present state of generative AI and agentic systems
as of early 2025. As AI capabilities continue to evolve, the landscape of feasible and desirable
agent-supported tasks will likely shift. While our framework offers a timely and structured baseline,
future iterations of this audit will be essential for tracking long-term trends and informing the
responsible development of workplace AI systems.
Acknowledgements
We would like to thank Chuchu Jin and Yanzhe Zhang for their help in distributing the survey
interface on Linkedin. We are grateful to Hao Zhu for database setup, to Will Held, Dora Zhao, Omar
Shaikh, Yifan Mai, Sunny Yu, Zachary Robertson for their valuable feedback on the manuscript, and
to all members of Stanford SALT lab for their suggestions at different stages of this project. This work
would not have been possible without the thoughtful participation of the 1,500 domain workers and 52
AI experts who contributed to the study. This research is supported in part by grants from ONR grant
N000142412532, and NSF grant IIS-2247357 and support from the Stanford Digital Economy Lab.
References
Ben Armstrong, Valerie K. Chen, Alex Cuellar, Alexandra Forsey-Smerek, and Julie A. Shah. Au-
tomation from the worker’s perspective, 2024. URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/2409.20387.
David H Autor. Why are there still so many jobs? the history and future of workplace automation.
Journal of economic perspectives, 29(3):3–30, 2015.
David H Autor, Frank Levy, and Richard J Murnane. The skill content of recent technological change:
An empirical exploration.The Quarterly journal of economics, 118(4):1279–1333, 2003.
Erik Brynjolfsson. The turing trap: The promise & peril of human-like artificial intelligence.Daedalus,
151(2):272–287, 2022.
Erik Brynjolfsson and Tom Mitchell. What can machine learning do? workforce implications.Science,
358(6370):1530–1534, 2017.
Erik Brynjolfsson, Danielle Li, and Lindsey Raymond. Generative ai at work.The Quarterly Journal
of Economics, page qjae044, 2025.
Cristiano Castelfranchi. Guarantees for autonomy in cognitive agent architecture. InInternational
workshop on agent theories, architectures, and languages, pages 56–70. Springer, 1994.
SAE On-Road Automated Vehicle Standards Committee et al. Taxonomy and definitions for terms
related to on-road motor vehicle automated driving systems.SAE Standard J, 3016:1, 2014.
Ozge Demirci, Jonas Hannane, and Xinrong Zhu. Who is ai replacing? the impact of generative ai
on online freelancing platforms.Management Science, 2025.
Matthew S Dey and Mark A Loewenstein.On job requirements, skill, and wages. US Department of
Labor, US Bureau of Labor Statistics, Office of Employment . . . , 2019.
Andrea L Eisfeldt, Gregor Schubert, Miao Ben Zhang, and Bledi Taska. The labor impact of generative
ai on firm values.Available at SSRN 4436627, 2023.
17

Tyna Eloundou, Sam Manning, Pamela Mishkin, and Daniel Rock. Gpts are gpts: An
early look at the labor market impact potential of large language models, 2023. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.10130.
Rosanna Fanni, Valerie Eveline Steinkogler, Giulia Zampedri, and Jo Pierson. Enhancing human
agency through redress in artificial intelligence systems.AI & society, 38(2):537–547, 2023.
Morgan R Frank, David Autor, James E Bessen, Erik Brynjolfsson, Manuel Cebrian, David J Deming,
Maryann Feldman, Matthew Groh, José Lobo, Esteban Moro, et al. Toward understanding the
impact of artificial intelligence on labor.Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 116(14):
6531–6539, 2019.
M. R. Genesereth and Nils J. Nilsson.Logical Foundations of Artificial Intelligence. 1987.
Anna F. Gödöllei and James W. Beck. Insecure or optimistic? employees’ diverging appraisals
of automation, and consequences for job attitudes.Computers in Human Behavior Reports,
12:100342, 2023. ISSN 2451-9588. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chbr.2023.100342. URL
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2451958823000751.
Kunal Handa, Alex Tamkin, Miles McCain, Saffron Huang, Esin Durmus, Sarah Heck, Jared Mueller,
Jerry Hong, Stuart Ritchie, Tim Belonax, et al. Which economic tasks are performed with ai?
evidence from millions of claude conversations.arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.04761, 2025.
Sanchaita Hazra, Bodhisattwa Prasad Majumder, and Tuhin Chakrabarty. Ai safety should prioritize
the future of work.arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.13959, 2025.
Manuel Hoffmann, Sam Boysel, Frank Nagle, Sida Peng, and Kevin Xu. Generative ai and the nature
of work. Technical report, CESifo Working Paper, 2024.
Yucheng Jiang, Yijia Shao, Dekun Ma, Sina Semnani, and Monica Lam. Into the unknown unknowns:
Engaged human learning through participation in language model agent conversations. InPro-
ceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 9917–9955,
Miami, Florida, USA, November 2024. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/
v1/2024.emnlp-main.554. URLhttps://aclanthology.org/2024.emnlp-main.554/.
Michelle S Lam, Janice Teoh, James A Landay, Jeffrey Heer, and Michael S Bernstein. Concept
induction: Analyzing unstructured text with high-level concepts using lloom. InProceedings of
the 2024 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, pages 1–28, 2024.
Xiao Liu, Hao Yu, Hanchen Zhang, Yifan Xu, Xuanyu Lei, Hanyu Lai, Yu Gu, Hangliang Ding, Kaiwen
Men, Kejuan Yang, et al. Agentbench: Evaluating llms as agents.arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.03688,
2023.
John McCarthy. Programs with common sense, 1959.
Grégoire Mialon, Clémentine Fourrier, Thomas Wolf, Yann LeCun, and Thomas Scialom. Gaia: a bench-
mark for general ai assistants. InThe Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations, 2023.
Margaret Mitchell, Avijit Ghosh, Alexandra Sasha Luccioni, and Giada Pistilli. Fully autonomous
ai agents should not be developed.arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.02649, 2025.
Raja Parasuraman. Designing automation for human use: empirical studies and quantitative models.
Ergonomics, 43(7):931–951, 2000.
18

S. Russell and P . Norvig.Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach. Series in Artificial Intelligence.
Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ, 1995.
Chirag Shah and Ryen W. White. Agents are not enough. 2024. URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/
2412.16241.
Yijia Shao, Yucheng Jiang, Theodore Kanell, Peter Xu, Omar Khattab, and Monica Lam. Assisting
in writing Wikipedia-like articles from scratch with large language models. InProceedings of
the 2024 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
Human Language Technologies (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 6252–6278, Mexico City, Mexico, June
2024a. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2024.naacl-long.347. URL
https://aclanthology.org/2024.naacl-long.347/.
Yijia Shao, Vinay Samuel, Yucheng Jiang, John Yang, and Diyi Yang. Collaborative gym: A framework
for enabling and evaluating human-agent collaboration.arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.15701, 2024b.
Theodore Sumers, Shunyu Yao, Karthik Narasimhan, and Thomas Griffiths. Cognitive architectures
for language agents.Transactions on Machine Learning Research, 2023.
Maja Svanberg, Wensu Li, Martin Fleming, Brian Goehring, and Neil Thompson. Beyond ai exposure:
Which tasks are cost-effective to automate with computer vision?Available at SSRN 4700751, 2024.
Suzanne Tsacoumis and Shannon Willison. O* net analyst occupational skill ratings: Procedures.
Alexandria, V A: Human Resources Research Organization, 2010.
Lei Wang, Chen Ma, Xueyang Feng, Zeyu Zhang, Hao Yang, Jingsen Zhang, Zhiyuan Chen, Jiakai
Tang, Xu Chen, Yankai Lin, et al. A survey on large language model based autonomous agents.
Frontiers of Computer Science, 18(6):186345, 2024a.
Xingyao Wang, Boxuan Li, Yufan Song, Frank F. Xu, Xiangru Tang, Mingchen Zhuge, Jiayi Pan, Yueqi
Song, Bowen Li, Jaskirat Singh, Hoang H. Tran, Fuqiang Li, Ren Ma, Mingzhang Zheng, Bill Qian,
Yanjun Shao, Niklas Muennighoff, Yizhe Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Junyang Lin, Robert Brennan, Hao
Peng, Heng Ji, and Graham Neubig. OpenHands: An Open Platform for AI Software Developers
as Generalist Agents, 2024b. URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/2407.16741.
Michael Wooldridge and Nicholas R Jennings. Intelligent agents: Theory and practice.The knowledge
engineering review, 10(2):115–152, 1995.
Tianbao Xie, Danyang Zhang, Jixuan Chen, Xiaochuan Li, Siheng Zhao, Ruisheng Cao, Toh J Hua,
Zhoujun Cheng, Dongchan Shin, Fangyu Lei, et al. Osworld: Benchmarking multimodal agents
for open-ended tasks in real computer environments.Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 37:52040–52094, 2024.
John Yang, Carlos E Jimenez, Alexander Wettig, Kilian Lieret, Shunyu Yao, Karthik R Narasimhan,
and Ofir Press. Swe-agent: Agent-computer interfaces enable automated software engineering.
InThe Thirty-eighth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems, 2024.
Shunyu Yao, Noah Shinn, Pedram Razavi, and Karthik Narasimhan. τ-bench: A
benchmark for tool-agent-user interaction in real-world domains, 2024. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2406.12045.
Wenting Zhao, Xiang Ren, Jack Hessel, Claire Cardie, Yejin Choi, and Yuntian Deng. Wildchat:
1m chatGPT interaction logs in the wild. InThe Twelfth International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2024. URLhttps://openreview.net/forum?id=Bl8u7ZRlbM.
19

Appendix
Table of Contents
A Survey Details 21
B Robustness Analysis 22
B.1 Annotation Agreement of AI Expert Assessments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
B.2 Mixed-Effects Model Regression on Worker Responses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
C Usage of External Data and Resources 24
C.1 Occupational Information Network (O*NET) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
C.2 Occupational Employment and Wage Statistics by U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics . . . . . . . . . 25
C.3 Claude.ai Usage Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
C.4 Y Combinator (YC) Company and AI Agent Research Paper Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
D WORKBank Statistics 28
D.1 Full List of Included Occupations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
D.2 Coverage of the U.S. Workforce . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
D.3 Domain Worker Demographic Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
D.4 Recruitment Sources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
E Additional Results 31
E.1 Top 20 Tasks Workers Want Automated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
E.2 Bottom 20 Tasks Workers Want Automated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
E.3 Y Combinator Investment Patterns Across Task Zones . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
E.4 Full Human Agency Scale Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
E.5 Top 10 Occupations By Worker-Expert Discrepancies in HAS Ratings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
E.6 Task to Skill Mapping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
F Audio Response Analysis 35
F.1 LLM-based Topic Modeling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
F.2 Audio Response Examples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
20

A Survey Details
We instantiate our auditing framework (see §2) with an audio-enhanced, semi-structured survey
interface to collect first-hand data from domain workers who actually perform those tasks. Our
survey is structured as follows:
• AMini-interview Sectiondesigned to explore participants’ work process and perspectives on
the role of AI agents in their work. This section consists of five open-ended questions, allowing
participants to share their thoughts freely and edit their audio transcripts in real time:
A1 Could you please briefly describe what you do for your work?
A2 What tasks do you typically do for your work? Think about this question based on the time
you spend on each of them.
A3 Please tell us more about the tools or software you use for these tasks. Please try to sort
them by usage frequency.
A4 For the three tasks that you spend the most of your time on, could you walk us through
your process of completing each of them?
A5 How do you envision using AI in your daily work?
• ATask Rating Sectionassessing both automation desire ( Aw(t)) and the desired Human
Agency Scale level (Hw(t)) for tasks associated with the participant’s occupation. For each task,
participants respond to a series of structured questions. Items T.I3, T.A1–A3, and T.C1–C5 are
all rated on a 5-point Likert scale:
TASKFAMILARITY QUESTIONS:
T.I1 Have you done this task before?
(Yes/No; if “No”, remaining questions are skipped.)
T.I2a With respect to this task, I consider myself a...
(Novice, Average, Expert)
T.I2b How much time do you spend on this task in your daily work schedule?
(10%, 30%, 50%, 70%, 100%)
T.I3 How closely is this task related to your core skills or unique strengths that are essential
to your job?
AUTOMATIONDESIRE RATING QUESTIONS:
T.A1 If an AI can do this task for you completely, how worried would you be that your job will
be replaced?
T.A2 Without thinking about salary, how much do you enjoy doing this task?
T.A3 If an AI can do this task for you completely, how much do you want an AI to do it for you?
T.A4 Why would you like this task to be automated by AI? (Shown if T.A3 ≥ 3; multi-select
options):
* Automating this task would free up my time for higher-value work.
* This task is repetitive or tedious.
* Automating this task would improve the quality of my work.
* The task is stressful or mentally draining.
* This task is complicated or difficult.
* Automating this task would help me scale and handle higher output.
HUMANAGENCYSCALE RATING QUESTIONS:
T.C1 How much does this task require taking physical actions or physical labor?
21

T.C2 How much does this task require dealing with uncertainty or making high-stake decisions?
T.C3 How much does this task require specific domain expertise (such as specialized knowledge,
unspoken wisdom, or insights gained through experience)?
T.C4 How much does this task depend on interpersonal communication or empathy?
T.C5 If AI were to assist in this task, how much of your collaboration would be needed to
complete this task effectively? (References to H1 to H5 are provided)
T.C6 Why would collaboration be needed for this task? (Shown if T.C5≥ 3; multi-select options):
* This task requires physical actions.
* This task involves making high-stake decisions which I would like to control.
* This task requires specific domain knowledge.
* The task involves nuanced communication or interpersonal skills.
* The task needs validation or oversight to ensure quality.
* The task is dynamic and requires adapting to changing circumstances.
* The task has ethical, sensitive, or subjective aspects.
• ADemographic Question Sectionwhere we ask about information on age, gender, race, income,
education, years of experience in occupation, attitude towards AI, zip code, political orientation,
and details about their familiarity with LLMs and how they currently use them (i.e., types of
usage and frequency).
B Robustness Analysis
B.1 Annotation Agreement of AI Expert Assessments
AI experts with practical R&D experience provided ratings for current automation capability
Ae(t) and feasible human-agency levelsHe(t). To ensure high-quality annotations, we applied the
following controls:
•Expert qualifications.Each expert satisfied at least one of:
1. Current PhD student specializing in NLP , large language models, or AI agents.
2. PhD in Computer Science with demonstrated expertise in AI, LLMs, or agentic systems.
3. Industry practitioner (e.g., machine learning engineer or research scientist) with hands-on
experience in LLMs and agentic systems.
In total, 52 experts were recruited from institutions including Stanford University, MIT, Google,
and xAI,etc..
• Assessment protocol.Every task t was independently assessed by at least two experts, with
additional reviews to ensure thatAe(t)andH e(t)ratings exhibit a standard deviation≤1.
Inter-annotator agreement, measured by Krippendorff’sα, was 0.539 forAe(t)and 0.511 forH e(t).
B.2 Mixed-Effects Model Regression on Worker Responses
To assess the extent to which workers’ automation desire ratings reflect intrinsic task properties rather
than individual demographics, we fitted a linear mixed-effects model of the form
yij =β 0 +
KX
k=1
βkXk,ij +uj +εij,
uj ∼ N(0,σ 2
u), ε ij ∼ N(0,σ 2
ε ),
22

Variable Coef. Std.Err. z P>|z| Variable Coef. Std.Err. z P>|z|
Intercept 2.736 0.224 12.208 0.000 llm_usage_by_type__edit[T.Monthly] 0.023 0.065 0.352 0.725gender[T.Male] 0.070 0.037 1.909 0.056 llm_usage_by_type__edit[T.Never] -0.185 0.076 -2.447 0.014gender[T.Other] -0.210 0.356 -0.591 0.555 llm_usage_by_type__edit[T.Weekly] -0.094 0.047 -2.009 0.045gender[T.Prefer not to say] 0.153 0.141 1.084 0.278 llm_usage_by_type__idea_generation[T.Monthly] -0.096 0.062 -1.545 0.122education[T.Bachelor’s Degree] 0.022 0.081 0.268 0.789llm_usage_by_type__idea_generation[T.Never] 0.072 0.076 0.952 0.341education[T.Doctorate (e.g., PhD)] 0.236 0.113 2.086 0.037llm_usage_by_type__idea_generation[T.Weekly] -0.014 0.049 -0.279 0.781education[T.High School] 0.037 0.117 0.319 0.750 llm_usage_by_type__communication[T.Monthly] -0.042 0.066 -0.641 0.521education[T.Master’s Degree] 0.121 0.084 1.436 0.151llm_usage_by_type__communication[T.Never] -0.052 0.067 -0.785 0.432education[T.Prefer not to say] 0.157 0.221 0.711 0.477llm_usage_by_type__communication[T.Weekly] -0.051 0.047 -1.084 0.278education[T.Professional Degree (e.g., MD, JD)] -0.087 0.130 -0.670 0.503llm_usage_by_type__analysis[T.Monthly] 0.078 0.067 1.158 0.247education[T.Some College, No Degree] -0.125 0.093 -1.340 0.180llm_usage_by_type__analysis[T.Never] -0.013 0.080 -0.165 0.869experience[T.3-5 years] 0.100 0.060 1.662 0.097 llm_usage_by_type__analysis[T.Weekly] 0.126 0.052 2.415 0.016experience[T.6-10 years] 0.141 0.065 2.180 0.029 llm_usage_by_type__decision[T.Monthly] 0.022 0.066 0.329 0.742experience[T.Less than 1 year] -0.073 0.120 -0.610 0.542llm_usage_by_type__decision[T.Never] -0.085 0.077 -1.107 0.268experience[T.More than 10 years] 0.229 0.067 3.415 0.001llm_usage_by_type__decision[T.Weekly] -0.122 0.054 -2.268 0.023llm_familiarity[T.I have some experience using them.] -0.266 0.154 -1.726 0.084llm_usage_by_type__coding[T.Monthly] -0.021 0.064 -0.328 0.743llm_familiarity[T.I use them regularly.] -0.266 0.156 -1.711 0.087llm_usage_by_type__coding[T.Never] 0.057 0.067 0.850 0.396llm_familiarity[T.No, I’ve never heard of them.] 1.370 0.611 2.241 0.025llm_usage_by_type__coding[T.Weekly] -0.130 0.059 -2.228 0.026llm_use_in_work[T.Yes, I use them every day in my work.] 0.077 0.053 1.457 0.145llm_usage_by_type__system_design[T.Monthly] -0.171 0.073 -2.334 0.020llm_use_in_work[T.Yes, I use them every week in my work.] 0.025 0.051 0.493 0.622llm_usage_by_type__system_design[T.Never] -0.173 0.073 -2.362 0.018race[T.Black] -0.077 0.069 -1.127 0.260 llm_usage_by_type__system_design[T.Weekly] -0.131 0.070 -1.858 0.063race[T.Hispanic] -0.024 0.093 -0.260 0.795 llm_usage_by_type__data_processing[T.Monthly] -0.026 0.060 -0.430 0.667race[T.Native American] -0.209 0.166 -1.257 0.209 llm_usage_by_type__data_processing[T.Never] 0.099 0.061 1.633 0.102race[T.Other] 0.233 0.088 2.657 0.008 llm_usage_by_type__data_processing[T.Weekly] 0.026 0.052 0.494 0.622race[T.White] -0.139 0.062 -2.226 0.026 ai_tedious_work_attitude[T.Somewhat agree] 0.385 0.096 3.991 0.000income[T.165K-209K] 0.209 0.080 2.621 0.009 ai_tedious_work_attitude[T.Somewhat disagree] 0.538 0.128 4.206 0.000income[T.209K-529K] 0.212 0.102 2.076 0.038 ai_tedious_work_attitude[T.Strongly agree] 0.685 0.097 7.098 0.000income[T.30-60K] 0.275 0.063 4.332 0.000 ai_tedious_work_attitude[T.Strongly disagree] 0.439 0.126 3.482 0.000income[T.529K+] 0.687 0.181 3.792 0.000 ai_job_importance_attitude[T.Somewhat agree] -0.027 0.050 -0.534 0.593income[T.60-86K] 0.113 0.066 1.711 0.087 ai_job_importance_attitude[T.Somewhat disagree] -0.040 0.056 -0.720 0.472income[T.86K-165K] 0.089 0.064 1.403 0.161 ai_job_importance_attitude[T.Strongly agree] -0.087 0.065 -1.351 0.177income[T.Prefer not to say] -0.035 0.107 -0.329 0.742ai_job_importance_attitude[T.Strongly disagree] -0.012 0.071 -0.172 0.864political_affiliation[T.Green Party] -0.198 1.157 -0.171 0.864ai_daily_interest_attitude[T.Somewhat agree] 0.128 0.074 1.724 0.085political_affiliation[T.Independent] -0.074 0.053 -1.403 0.161ai_daily_interest_attitude[T.Somewhat disagree] 0.027 0.103 0.262 0.793political_affiliation[T.Libertarian] 0.193 0.125 1.539 0.124ai_daily_interest_attitude[T.Strongly agree] 0.415 0.078 5.308 0.000political_affiliation[T.No political affliation] 0.063 0.057 1.092 0.275ai_daily_interest_attitude[T.Strongly disagree] 0.069 0.109 0.633 0.526political_affiliation[T.Other] 0.208 0.157 1.328 0.184 ai_suffering_attitude[T.Somewhat agree] -0.299 0.058 -5.191 0.000political_affiliation[T.Prefer not to answer] 0.136 0.070 1.942 0.052ai_suffering_attitude[T.Somewhat disagree] -0.047 0.055 -0.852 0.394political_affiliation[T.Republican] 0.054 0.048 1.140 0.254ai_suffering_attitude[T.Strongly agree] -0.438 0.074 -5.928 0.000llm_usage_by_type__information_access[T.Monthly] -0.082 0.065 -1.256 0.209ai_suffering_attitude[T.Strongly disagree] -0.023 0.059 -0.391 0.696llm_usage_by_type__information_access[T.Never] -0.125 0.077 -1.624 0.104age -0.003 0.002 -2.033 0.042llm_usage_by_type__information_access[T.Weekly] 0.098 0.046 2.149 0.032
Table 1: Fixed-effects estimates from the mixed-effects regression predicting automation desire ratings.
where yij is the automation desire rating provided by workeri on task j, Xk,ij are the K demographic
and attitude covariates (age, gender, education, experience, LLM familiarity/use, income, political
affiliation, LLM-usage subtypes, and AI-attitude scales), βk their fixed effects, uj a task-specific
random intercept, and εij the residual error. The model was estimated by REML using the
statsmodelsMixedLM interface in Python.
The fitted model (see Table 1) yielded the following variance-component estimates:
bσ2
u = 0.066,bσ 2
ε = 1.254,
implying an intraclass correlation
ICC = bσ2
u
bσ2u +bσ2ε
= 0.050,
i.e., roughly 5% of total variance in automation desire is attributable to between-task differences. This
“small-to-moderate” ICC confirms that task-level properties carry a real signal in workers’ automation
desire ratings.
Among fixed effects, higher educational attainment (“Doctorate” vs. “Bachelor’s”: ˆβ= 0.236 ,
p= 0.037 ) and greater work experience (“>10 years” vs. “1–2 years”: ˆβ= 0.229 , p <0.01 ) were
associated with increased automation desire. Attitudinal scales also showed significant associations:
Strong agreement that “AI relieves tedious work” predicted higher desire (ˆβ= 0.685, p <0.001), while
23

stronger “AI suffering” attitudes predicted lower desire (ˆβ=−0.438 , p <0.001). Income levels were
positively related to automation desire (e.g.“$529K+” vs. “$0–30K”:ˆβ= 0.687,p <0.001).
We further conduct an additional analysis focusing on tasks where the task-level signal is stronger.
We identified “high-signal” tasks based on two criteria: (1) low within-task variance in worker ratings
(below the median variance), and (2) strong separate from the overall mean desire rating (above the
median absolute deviation). This filtering retained 238 tasks. Fitting on this high-signal subset, the
same linear mixed-effects model yields an ICC of 0.405. Critically, the distribution of tasks across
the four zones remained remarkably stable: in the high-signal subset, 41.60% of tasks fall in the
Automation “Green Light” Zone (vs. 43.13% in the full dataset), 31.09% in the Automation “Red
Light” Zone (vs. 31.64%), 15.13% in the Low Priority zone (vs. 12.56%), and 12.18% in the R&D
Opportunity zone (vs. 12.68%). Together, these results indicate that, after controlling for a broad array
of individual differences, task identity still explains a meaningful fraction of variance in automation
desire. In the main paper, we use the average ratings for analysis.
C Usage of External Data and Resources
C.1 Occupational Information Network (O*NET)
We source occupational tasks in this study from O*NET (version 29.2) Task Statements3. The O*NET
database is a regularly updated database containing information about occupations across the United
States. O*NET maps occupations to knowledge, skills, and abilities on different levels of granularity,
as well as to tasks and detailed work activities. In O*NET, tasks are specific work activities that can be
unique for each occupation. In total, there are 18,796 task statements spanning across 923 occupations.
Each task statement is associated with O*NET-SOC Code, Title (i.e., occupation), and Task Type (i.e.,
“Core”/“Supplementary”). Moreover, O*NET provides annotations of task categories based on the
frequency of the task in seven categories (“Yearly or less”, “ More than yearly”, “More than monthly”,
“More than weekly”, “Daily”, “ Several times daily”, “ Hourly or more”)4. As this work focuses on
digital AI agents, we filter these task statements based on the following criteria:
1. The occupation mainly involves using computers in its work as judged bygpt-4o.
2. The task can be finished on the computer as judged bygpt-4o
3. The task does not miss annotation for “Core”/“Supplementary”.
4. The task will be done more than monthly.
After filtering, there are 2,131 tasks remaining, spanning across 287 occupations.
Prompt for Filtering Occupations
Does this job mainly involve using computers?
Answer format: “Yes” or “No”
Occupation: {occupation}
3https://www.onetcenter.org/dictionary/29.2/excel/task_statements.html
4https://www.onetcenter.org/dictionary/29.2/excel/task_categories.html
24

Prompt for Filtering Occupational Tasks
For {occupation}, is it possible to finish its work-related task on a computer?
Answer format: “Yes” or “No”
Task: {task}
C.2 Occupational Employment and Wage Statistics by U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics
We use occupational employment and wage statistics from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) to
contextualize our findings with economic data. Specifically, we draw on data from the BLS May 2024
Occupational Employment and Wage Statistics Query System5 to obtain the “Annual Mean Wage” and
“Employment” (i.e., number of employees) fields for each occupation in our database. These fields,
combined with the collected first-hand data in WORKBank, inform the analysis presented in Figure 7.
C.3 Claude.ai Usage Data
To shed light on the relationship between current large language model (LLM) usage and future
worker desires, we compare WORKBank automation desires with existing Claude.ai usage data from
the Anthropic Economic Index Handa et al. (2025). The Anthropic dataset reports Claude usage at
the task level, following O*NET task definitions. These standardized definitions allow us to directly
map tasks from the Anthropic dataset to corresponding tasks in the WORKBank database, enabling
a structured comparison across both sources. Our data shows that the top 10 occupations with the
highest average automation desire represent only 1.26% of total usage (Figure 4c).
C.4 Y Combinator (YC) Company and AI Agent Research Paper Data
We collect data on Y Combinator (YC) companies and AI agent research papers to assess how
current investment and research efforts align with the desire–capability landscape revealed by the
WORKBank database (Figure 5). To enable this analysis, we developed an LLM-assisted pipeline
that systematically identifies and maps relevant YC startups and academic publications to specific
occupational tasks in the WORKBank database.
YC Company Collection ProcessThe full list of YC companies was retrieved on April 28, 2025,
from the official YC website6. The initial dataset comprised 5,156 companies. Company descriptions
were collected from their respective YC detail pages and filtered using an LLM-based process
(gpt-4.1-mini). Each company description was assessed using a binary classification prompt (see
Prompt for YC Company Classifier) to determine whether the company is AI-relevant. This process
identified 1,723 AI-related companies.
AI Agent Research Paper Collection ProcessAcademic papers were obtained from the arXiv
official website7, with a submission cut-off date of April 24, 2025. Papers were first screened by
keyword: their title or abstract must contain “language model” (case-insensitive) and either “agent”
or “system.” This yielded an initial set of 17,064 papers. This set was refined withgpt-4.1-mini
using a checklist (see Prompt for AI Agent Paper Classifier) to verify that each paper: (i) describes
tasks extendingbeyond single-turn raw text completion, (ii) presents an implemented pipeline, (iii)
conducts task-level evaluations, and (iv) involves a realistic task scenario. This process produced
5https://www.bls.gov/oes/tables.htm
6https://www.ycombinator.com/companies
7http://arxiv.org
25

a final selection of 1,222 papers. For each paper passing this filter, we performed an additional round
of task extraction (see Prompt for Paper Task Extractor); the extracted task statement serves as the
paper’s representative description in the subsequent mapping step.
Task Mapping ProcessFor each YC company and AI agent paper identified through the above
processes, we again employedgpt-4.1-mini to perform binary classification of their applicability to
each occupational task in the WORKBank database. For YC company-to-task mapping, see Prompt for
Company-to-Task Classifier; for agent paper-to-task mapping, see Prompt for Paper-to-Task Classifier.
Prompt for YC Company Classifier
You will be presented with a company description. Your job is to classify if the company is an AI related company or
not.
An AI-related company is defined as a company that is involved in the research, development, or application of AI.
Output a boolean value.
——
The description of the company: {company_description}
The boolean value indicating if the company is an AI-related company:
Prompt for AI Agent Paper Classifier
You will see a paper TITLE and ABSTRACT. Return True if the paper’s main contribution is an LLM-driven AGENT
SYSTEM, else False.
Agent-system criteria (must ALL hold):
1. Beyond single turn raw text completion - The LLM’s output decides what action or module happens next
(planner/controller role), beyond single turn raw text completion.
2. Implemented pipeline - A complete system is actually built and run, not merely proposed.
3. Task-level evaluation - The paper reports results on the entire system performing its task (automatic metrics or
user studies).
4. Realistic task - The task matches a plausible real-world workflow or a credible simulated environment.
If ANY criterion is missing, output "False".
——
The title of the paper: {paper_title}
The abstract of the paper: {paper_abstract}
Whether the paper is an LLM-driven agent system:
26

Prompt for Paper Task Extractor
You will be given the TITLE and ABSTRACT of a research paper describing an agent system. Extract the core task
the paper addresses and express it in one concise sentence that begins exactly with: "The paper proposes an agent
system to solve the task of...". Your output should be only that sentence, capturing the primary objective of the
system.
——
The title of the paper: {paper_title}
The abstract of the paper: {paper_abstract}
The core task the paper addresses, expressed in one concise sentence:
Prompt for Company-to-Task Classifier
You will receive a brief description of a company and its product/service and an indexed list of workflows. For each
workflow, decide whether workers involved in that workflow are a primary or explicitly intended user group of the
company’s offering. If the link is merely incidental, indirect, or speculative, mark it False. When in doubt, default to
False.
——
The description of the company: {company_description}
The list of workflows and their descriptions: {workflows}
The dictionary of occupations and whether they are the target users of the company:
Prompt for Paper-to-Task Classifier
You will receive a brief description of a task proposed in the paper and an indexed list of workflows. For each
workflow, decide whether the task is related to the workflow and the research is applicable to the workflow. If the
link is merely incidental, indirect, or speculative, mark it False. When in doubt, default to False.
——
The description of the task proposed in the paper: {task_description}
The list of workflows and their descriptions: {workflows}
The dictionary of workflows and whether they are related to the task:
27

D WORKBank Statistics
As detailed in Section 2.5, we retained only occupations with at least ten worker responses from
January to May 2025, yielding 1,500 individual assessments across 104 occupations. In this section,
we present detailed statistics on occupational coverage, participant demographics, and recruitment
sources in the WORKBank database.
D.1 Full List of Included Occupations
Occupation (O*NET-SOC Title)NOccupation (O*NET-SOC Title)N
Customer Service Representatives 53 Biostatisticians 12Sales Representatives, Wholesale and Manufacturing, Technical and Scientific Products 35 Quality Control Analysts 12Accountants and Auditors 31 Advertising and Promotions Managers 12Clinical Research Coordinators 30 Budget Analysts 11Medical and Health Services Managers 30 Public Relations Specialists 11Computer Programmers 28 Financial Managers 11Web Developers 27 Logistics Analysts 11Computer and Information Systems Managers 27 Medical Transcriptionists 11Computer Systems Analysts 25 Radiologists 11Purchasing Managers 24 Eligibility Interviewers, Government Programs 11Business Teachers, Postsecondary 24 Court, Municipal, and License Clerks 11Information Technology Project Managers 24 Securities, Commodities, and Financial Services Sales Agents 11Financial Quantitative Analysts 23 Sustainability Specialists 11Insurance Claims and Policy Processing Clerks 21 Web Administrators 11Computer and Information Research Scientists 20 Geographers 11Legal Secretaries and Administrative Assistants 19 Management Analysts 11Secretaries and Administrative Assistants, Except Legal, Medical, and Executive 18 Bioinformatics Scientists 11Human Resources Specialists 18 News Analysts, Reporters, and Journalists 11Human Resources Managers 17 Compliance Officers 11Business Intelligence Analysts 17 Video Game Designers 11Purchasing Agents, Except Wholesale, Retail, and Farm Products 17 Lawyers 11Statisticians 16 Proofreaders and Copy Markers 10Personal Financial Advisors 16 Architects, Except Landscape and Naval 10Production, Planning, and Expediting Clerks 16 Art Directors 10Computer User Support Specialists 16 Data Entry Keyers 10Search Marketing Strategists 16 Public Safety Telecommunicators 10Architectural and Civil Drafters 15 Producers and Directors 10Media Technical Directors/Managers 15 Precision Agriculture Technicians 10Editors 15 Credit Counselors 10Training and Development Specialists 15 Tax Preparers 10Transportation Planners 15 Health Informatics Specialists 10Appraisers and Assessors of Real Estate 14 Aerospace Engineers 10Fundraisers 14 Medical Secretaries and Administrative Assistants 10Credit Analysts 14 Technical Writers 10Writers and Authors 14 Reservation and Transportation Ticket Agents and Travel Clerks 10Graphic Designers 14 Petroleum Engineers 10Civil Engineers 14 Molecular and Cellular Biologists 10Information Security Analysts 14 Social Science Research Assistants 10Online Merchants 14 Financial Examiners 10Mathematicians 13 Telemarketers 10Travel Agents 13 Payroll and Timekeeping Clerks 10Photographers 13 Quality Control Systems Managers 10Software Quality Assurance Analysts and Testers 13 Judicial Law Clerks 10Bookkeeping, Accounting, and Auditing Clerks 13 Database Administrators 10Desktop Publishers 12 Power Distributors and Dispatchers 10Cost Estimators 12 Energy Engineers, Except Wind and Solar 10Regulatory Affairs Managers 12 Network and Computer Systems Administrators 10Mechanical Engineers 12 Librarians and Media Collections Specialists 10Supply Chain Managers 12 Treasurers and Controllers 10Clinical Data Managers 12 Biofuels Production Managers 10Computer Systems Engineers/Architects 12 Mechanical Engineering Technologists and Technicians 10Loan Officers 12 Computer Network Support Specialists 10
Table 2: List of occupations covered in the WORKBank database and the number of survey participants
from each occupation.
28

Figure 8: Demographic distribution of worker participants in our study compared to U.S. workforce
demographics for the same set of occupations covered in the WORKBank database, based on data
from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
D.2 Coverage of the U.S. Workforce
We evaluate the representativeness of WORKBank by comparing its sector-level distribution with
U.S. workforce data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics8. Figure 3 presents a breakdown of workforce
coverage by sector, contrasting our database with the full U.S. workforce (a) and with the workforce
restricted to the 104 occupations included in our database (b). Overall, the comparisons suggest that
our database captures a broad and representative cross-section of the U.S. workforce at the sector level.
D.3 Domain Worker Demographic Information
We compare the demographic profile of domain workers in WORKBank with that of the U.S.
workforce. U.S. workforce demographic data are sourced from the 2024 Annual Averages of the
Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) Current Population Survey 9. To ensure a fair comparison, we
filter the BLS data to include only the 104 occupations represented in our database. Figure 8 shows
the breakdown across key demographic dimensions. Our participant pool has a comprehensive
demographic coverage, with a tendency toward younger age groups.
D.4 Recruitment Sources
To obtain worker assessments, we mainly recruited domain workers through Prolific, Upwork, and
LinkedIn. Table 3 reports the breakdown of recruited domain workers before data filtering. Fo expert
assessments, we recruited 52 AI experts through word of mouth. These AI experts include PhD
students, postdocs, professors, and industry practitioners spanning across different career stages.
Table 4 reports their career stage and institutional distribution.
8https://www.bls.gov/oes/tables.htm
9https://www.bls.gov/cps/tables.htm
29

Recruitment Source Description # Participants
Prolific
We applied the following prescreen criteria: Employment Status (Full-Time or Part-Time);
Nationality (United States); Fluent Languages (English); Method of Work (computer or
mobile device used for≥25% of work). We also used the "Industry" prescreen filter to
ensure participants could only select occupations matching their Prolific profile industry.
1060
Upwork We required Upwork workers to be located in the United States. 184
Word of Mouth We distributed the survey link to LinkedIn users located in the United States and
distributed flyers within the United States. 434
Table 3: Breakdown of recruitment sources for domain workers in this study. The numbers shown
reflect all participants recruited before data filtering. Breakdowns by recruitment source after data
filtering are not available, as we did not link participant personal information with data points in
WORKBank to preserve privacy.
Career Stage Count Breakdown
PhD Student 25
1st year (3), 2nd year (2), 3rd year (7), 4th year (6), 5th year or above (7);
Stanford University (9), Cornell University (2), University of Cambridge (2),
University of Michigan (2), Carnegie Mellon University (1),
Northwestern University (1), University of Southern California (1),
University of Texas at Austin (1), Texas A&M University (1),
Purdue University (1), Georgia Institute of Technology (1),
New York University (1), University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign (1),
The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (1).
Postdoc 6 Stanford University (5), Harvard University (1).
Professor 6
University of Texas at San Antonio (1), Emory University (1),
Beihang University (1), University at Buffalo (1),
Texas A&M University (1), Massachusetts Institute of Technology (1).
Industry Practitioner 15
< 3 years of experience (8), 3-5 years of experience (5),
12 years of experience (2);
Google (4), Amazon (2), Apple (1), Tesla (1), Tencent (1),
Salesforce (1), xAI (1), Hugging Face (1), Other startups (3)
Table 4: Career stage and institutional distribution of 52 recruited AI experts.
30

E Additional Results
E.1 Top 20 Tasks Workers Want Automated
Task Average
Automation Desire
Tax Preparers: Schedule appointments with clients. 5.00
Public Safety Telecommunicators: Maintain files of information relating to emergency calls,
such as personnel rosters and emergency call-out and pager files. 4.67
Payroll and Timekeeping Clerks: Issue and record adjustments to pay related to previous
errors or retroactive increases. 4.60
Desktop Publishers: Convert various types of files for printing or for the Internet, using
computer software 4.50
Online Merchants: Create or maintain database of customer accounts. 4.50
Quality Control Systems Managers: Direct the tracking of defects, test results, or other
regularly reported quality control data. 4.50
Statisticians: Report results of statistical analyses, including information in the form of
graphs, charts, and tables. 4.50
Computer User Support Specialists: Maintain records of daily data communication transactions,
problems and remedial actions taken, or installation activities. 4.50
Online Merchants: Calculate revenue, sales, and expenses, using financial accounting or
spreadsheet software. 4.40
Data Entry Keyers: Store completed documents in appropriate locations. 4.33
Petroleum Engineers: Maintain records of drilling and production operations. 4.33
Logistics Analysts: Apply analytic methods or tools to understand, predict, or control logistics
operations or processes. 4.33
Court, Municipal, and License Clerks: Instruct parties about timing of court appearances. 4.33
Data Entry Keyers: Maintain logs of activities and completed work. 4.25
Compliance Officers: Prepare correspondence to inform concerned parties of licensing
decisions or appeals processes. 4.25
Web Developers: Back up files from Web sites to local directories for instant recovery in case
of problems. 4.20
Web Administrators: Back up or modify applications and related data to provide for disaster
recovery. 4.20
Bioinformatics Scientists: Manipulate publicly accessible, commercial, or proprietary genomic,
proteomic, or post-genomic databases. 4.17
Network and Computer Systems Administrators: Perform routine network startup and shutdown
procedures, and maintain control records. 4.17
Computer and Information Research Scientists: Approve, prepare, monitor, and adjust
operational budgets. 4.17
Table 5: Top 20 tasks with highest average automation desire.
31

E.2 Bottom 20 Tasks Workers Want Automated
Task Average
Automation Desire
Reservation and Transportation Ticket Agents and Travel Clerks: Trace lost, delayed, or
misdirected baggage for customers. 1.50
Logistics Analysts: Contact potential vendors to determine material availability. 1.50
Editors: Write text, such as stories, articles, editorials, or newsletters. 1.60
Reservation and Transportation Ticket Agents and Travel Clerks: Contact customers or
travel agents to advise them of travel conveyance changes or to confirm reservations. 1.67
Video Game Designers: Provide feedback to designers and other colleagues regarding
game design features. 1.67
Librarians and Media Collections Specialists: Code, classify, and catalog books, publications,
films, audio-visual aids, and other library materials, based on subject matter or standard
library classification systems.
1.67
Editors: Plan the contents of publications according to the publication’s style, editorial
policy, and publishing requirements. 1.67
Database Administrators: Write and code logical and physical database descriptions and
specify identifiers of database to management system, or direct others in coding descriptions.1.67
Graphic Designers: Key information into computer equipment to create layouts for client or
supervisor. 1.67
Mechanical Engineering Technologists and Technicians: Calculate required capacities for
equipment of proposed system to obtain specified performance and submit data to
engineering personnel for approval.
1.67
Secretaries and Administrative Assistants, Except Legal, Medical, and Executive: Establish
work procedures or schedules and keep track of the daily work of clerical staff. 1.67
Graphic Designers: Review final layouts and suggest improvements, as needed. 1.71
Graphic Designers: Prepare illustrations or rough sketches of material, discussing them with
clients or supervisors and making necessary changes. 1.71
Mechanical Engineering Technologists and Technicians: Interpret engineering sketches,
specifications, or drawings. 1.75
Accountants and Auditors: Prepare, examine, or analyze accounting records, financial
statements, or other financial reports to assess accuracy, completeness, and conformance to
reporting and procedural standards.
1.75
Editors: Allocate print space for story text, photos, and illustrations according to space
parameters and copy significance, using knowledge of layout principles. 1.75
Producers and Directors: Cut and edit film or tape to integrate component parts into desired
sequences. 1.75
Graphic Designers: Create designs, concepts, and sample layouts, based on knowledge of
layout principles and esthetic design concepts. 1.78
Librarians and Media Collections Specialists: Locate unusual or unique information in response
to specific requests. 1.80
Editors: Assign topics, events and stories to individual writers or reporters for coverage. 1.80
Table 6: Bottom 20 tasks with lowest average automation desire.
32

Figure 9:Number of unique newly funded Y Combinator companies mapped to each task zone in
the automation desire–capability landscape (2006–2025, through April).Despite the exponential
growth in AI agent startups, the temporal trends across all four zones remain largely parallel. Notably,
there is no disproportionate concentration in the Automation “Green Light” or R&D Opportunity
Zones—areas that warrant greater attention.
E.3 Y Combinator Investment Patterns Across Task Zones
As discussed in §3.2, jointly considering the worker-rated automation desire Aw(t) and expert-
assessed technological capability Ae(t) divide tasks in WORKBank into four zones: Automation
“Green Light” Zone, Automation “Red Light” Zone, R&D Opportunity Zone, Low Priority Zone
Figure 9 illustrates the number of unique newly funded YC companies mapped to each task zone from
2006 to 2025 (till April). Despite the exponential growth in AI agent startups, the distribution across
zones has remained relatively uniform over time. Notably, there is no disproportionate concentration
in the Automation “Green Light” or R&D Opportunity Zones—areas that warrant greater attention.
While the task zone classifications reflect a static snapshot and may not reflect the status in the past, the
findings nonetheless suggest a misalignment between where investments are flowing and the joint per-
spective of both those developing the technology and the workers the technology shall aim to support.
33

E.4 Full Human Agency Scale Results
Worker-Desired Level
Expert-Rated Feasible Level
Dominant Level by Worker-Desired Human Agency
H1H2H3H4H5
Figure 10:Distributions of Human Agency Scale (HAS) levels.The Jensen–Shannon Divergence (JSD)
quantifies the divergence between the distribution of worker-desired HAS levels (Hw(t)) and expert-assessed
feasible HAS levels (He(t)).

E.5 Top 10 Occupations By Worker-Expert Discrepancies in HAS Ratings
Occupation Dominant HAS Level
By Worker Desire
Dominant HAS Level
By AI Expert AssessmentJSD
Power Distributors and Dispatchers H4 H3 0.830
Medical Transcriptionists H2 H1 0.675
Securities, Commodities, and Financial Services Sales Agents H2 H1 0.615
Travel Agents H2 H1 0.571
Financial Examiners H4 H1 0.569
Public Relations Specialists H3 H4 0.569
Transportation Planners H3 H4 0.559
Aerospace Engineers H3 H5 0.538
Bookkeeping, Accounting, and Auditing Clerks H2 H1 0.526
Lawyers H3 H2 0.525
Table 7: Top 10 occupations with the largest discrepancies between the worker-desired
Human Agency Scale levelsHw(t) and AI expert-assessed feasible levelsHe(t). The discrep-
ancy is measured by the Jensen–Shannon divergence (JSD) between these two distributions,
where distributions are computed based on all annotated tasks within each occupation.
E.6 Task to Skill Mapping
We use the O*NET database to map tasks to their related skills (Generalized Work Activities).
In order to create broad groups of common skills across multiple tasks, O*NET defines
three levels of work activities: Generalized (GWA), Intermediate (IWA), and Detailed Work
Activities (DWA). Each task in the O*NET database is mapped to one or more DWA’s, which
then corresponds to exactly one GWA.
For example, the task “Compile financial data to prepare quarterly budget reports” is
mapped to the DWA “Prepare financial documents, reports, or budgets.” This DWA is
then associated with the skill (GWA): “Documenting/Recording Information”. Using this
mapping, we are able to directly match tasks to their corresponding skills.
Table 8 provides the full descriptions of the skills shown in Figure 7, ordered by decreasing
required human agency (Tsacoumis and Willison, 2010). We exclude physical skills (i.e.,
“Identifying Objects, Actions, and Events,” “Performing General Physical Activities,”
“Controlling Machines and Processes,” “Inspecting Equipment, Structures, or Materials,”
“Handling and Moving Objects,” “Repairing and Maintaining Mechanical Equipment”)
and “Working with Computers,” as the audit focuses on tasks that are likely to be exposed
to digital AI agents.
F Audio Response Analysis
F.1 LLM-based Topic Modeling
To analyze our audio transcripts collected from workers, we use LLooM (Lam et al., 2024), an
LLM-based topic modeling tool that takes unstructured text to extract high-level concepts.
35

Using LlooM, we first apply a distillation step with Claude 3 Opus on the audio
transcripts. This step filters the text to retain only the most relevant quotes based on a seed
prompt and performs a summarization of the filtered text. Subsequently, we cluster these
summarized quotes using the same LLM to form groups of related concepts. We manually
inspect the clusters to ensure the concepts are distinct and merge any overlapping concepts
as necessary. Table 9 and Table 10 present the top concept groups identified for two seed
prompts, corresponding to the analyses in §3.1 and §3.3, respectively.
F.2 Audio Response Examples
F.2.1 Full Transcripts for Direct Quotes in §3.1
Art Director with 6–10 Years of Experience:
So [my work is] basically just first of all looking through all the tasks in the
sauna at the start of the day. And then once shoots and, you know, filmings are
happening, looking through the footage and pictures, making sure they adhere to
brand standards and guidelines and a cohesive voice.
[I spend most of my time] Looking through imagery and making sure that it is
consistent and always deliverable, and making selects and things of that nature,
just establishing a cohesive tone. [I use] So definitely Bridge, you know, Photo
Mechanic, Capture One, Photoshop, Asana for the tasks like I mentioned earlier,
you know, Gmail, things like that. [For the detailed procedure,] Yeah, looking at
the imagery as it’s flowing through during the shoot or, you know, filming if it’s
video, and then from there going through and selecting and culling and, you know,
again, only sharing the best imagery that’s cohesive.
[For AI use,] I don’t really, unless it’s, you know, in some sort of minor
way to help the calling process become easier.I don’t want it to be used for
content creation. If anything, I want it to be used for seamlessly maximizing
workflow and, you know, making things less repetitive and tedious and arduous with
workflow. No content creation.
Art Director with 3-5 Years of Experience:
I manage some anime art projects as part of a company’s public relations and
community strategy for youth engagement. So I work with artists directly, manage
projects and merchandise and tabling at events and all that fun stuff.
36

I do a lot of internal meetings just to make sure everyone’s on the same page. It
takes up a lot of my time. I also have to scope out projects, find artist to work
with especially those we found on social media, figure out how to get in touch and
work with them, work with community groups as well, do this type of stuff. And
then I also help, well not directly do, but help assist in getting merchandise
produced, including preparing artwork for like production and stuff like that.
I spend a lot of time in Microsoft Word, Microsoft Teams, Outlook, which, you
know, my company uses Microsoft Office for everything. But then I also use, to
communicate with artists, I use the apps that they use. So sometimes that’s LINE,
sometimes that’s Discord, sometimes that’s Twitter. And then I personally have
my own notion for project management as well.
I spend a lot of time sculpting out projects, so I generally start brainstorming
or collecting all my research, gather all my information into Notion first, and
then put it into a Word document. The Word document’s a little more formal, but
I also like make sure that’s still approachable to artists, and then I, you know,
export that as a PDF. For communicating with artists, that depends on what they
use, but most of them use Discord, so it’s just back and forth. They send us a
sketch, I send that off to my people for, like, feedback very quickly, and then
I, you know, get back to them. I sometimes do have my own autonomy to, like, do
the final say on what does work and what doesn’t work. And then for at least
getting everyone on the same page, I spend a lot of time Microsoft Teams. I
obviously have to gather some meeting notes, like, write down some job stuff I
want to talk about beforehand, make sure there’s no surprises to people, it’s just
communicating and providing regular updates.
I would never use AI to like replace artists. I would be more for personal
[project management] use, if anything, it’s to summarize my tasks, for example,
or things like improving my writing, using Apple’s writing tools, where I can
just revise my writing to be a little more concise, but I would never, let it
brainstorm on my behalf, just because I find AI to be very poorly performing on
those type of tasks.
Graphic Design with More Than 10 Years of Experience:
I do basically architecture presentation, like graphic design work, work like
typically. It’s like layout design, which is organizing content, image or text
for AI storyline, diagram or infographics analysis diagram, render enhancement
like poster processing, 3D render for a polished look. I also do topography and
color scheme using professional fonts and color that align with the project’s
theme. I also work with board composition, arranging plan, section, elevation
and perspectives. I also work digital and print formatting, which is ensuring
high quality output for print or physical brands.
37

So, I basically do architectural presentations. Graphic design work typically
includes layout design, diagram, etc. Later enhancement, like post-printing
3D renders for a polished work. I also give topography color scheme both for
precision, visibility, and formality. I basically use drawing for autocad and
after that for render I use Photoshop and Illustrator and for 3D render I use
Lumion. So basically I spend a lot of time drafting in AutoCAD. The most common
tasks just likely include creating floor plans, creating sections, creating
elevation, annotation and dimensioning drawings, organizing and managing the
layers.
AI can be a game-changer in data architect workflow, helping to improve
efficiency, accuracy and even creativity. But I create my design by myself. For
research, I use AI.
F.2.2 Transcripts from Occupations Exhibiting High Human Agency (HAS) Levels
As discussed in §3.3, the Human Agency Scale (HAS) spectrum reveals that very few
occupations are characterized by a dominant HAS Level 5 (indicating essential human
involvement). “Editors” is the only occupation where workers predominantly desire H5.
According to AI expert assessments, only “Mathematicians” and “Aerospace Engineers”
fall into this category. Below are representative transcripts for these occupations.
Editor with 3-5 Years of Experience:
I proofread and copy-edit marketing materials, mostly in the travel and tourism
sector. I also do some copywriting and script writing for different ad clients
and some light design work.
I look through flyers, brochures, other marketing materials, and I do several
passes for mistakes in grammar, in consistency, in flow and clarity. And I
make changes on the document, usually a PDF, and send them back to the client.
They fix them, they send me another version, and I do several more passes until
we’ve spent enough time and got it perfect. I mainly use Adobe products, PDFs in
Adobe Reader. I also use Microsoft Word and some Adobe Suite products, mostly
Illustrator and InDesign.
38

For copy editing, I read through whatever material the client has sent me. I
do a pass for basic grammar. I do a pass for clarity and flow, often changing
the copy significantly to make it sound better. For proofreading, I go through
the materials. Same thing, but with less of a view toward changing the copy
and more toward finding errors in grammar and consistency and even design. For
copywriting, I make an outline of my ideas for the project and complete a rough
draft. Then I spend some time away from it and revise until I have a polished
draft for the client.
I’m resistant to using AI in my daily workflow. If I’m forced to use it, I would
use it for basic grammar editing, but I would check each suggestion against my own
knowledge very carefully and give it full consideration before adopting it as a
change.
Editor With More Than 10 Years of Experience:
So I work in a media company, [masked], and as an editor I make sure that all
JavaScript that I’m going to print are formatted correctly, the colors are
accurate, and there are no typos.
So a lot of what I do involves sitting at a computer using productivity tools
like Adobe Creative Suite, Canva, QuarkXPress, and using the Google Enterprise.
So for email, document sharing, I use Google Docs quite a bit for my editing
purposes, but I’ll also receive files in PDF format. So just working with all
the different tools on my computer to get my tasks done every day. So a lot of
what I do involves sitting at a computer using productivity tools like Adobe
Creative Suite, Canva, QuarkXPress, and using the Google Enterprise. So for
email, document sharing, I use Google Docs quite a bit for my editing purposes,
but I’ll also receive files in PDF format. So just working with all the different
tools on my computer to get my tasks done every day.
So one of the most frequent pieces of software I use is Adobe Acrobat, and that
is really great for editing PDFs. The next most frequent software I use would be
Google Docs. Receiving files through Google Docs, that’s a great way to be able
to provide updates and edits to annotate the files. And then I would say other
tools like Adobe InDesign, Adobe Photoshop, QuarkXPress, Microsoft Publisher.
Those are occasionally used, but that’s really about all four of the frequently
used programs, I would say. So one of the most frequent pieces of software I
use is Adobe Acrobat, and that is really great for editing PDFs. The next most
frequent software I use would be Google Docs. Receiving files through Google
Docs, that’s a great way to be able to provide updates and edits to annotate the
files. And then I would say other tools like Adobe InDesign, Adobe Photoshop,
QuarkXPress, Microsoft Publisher. Those are occasionally used, but that’s really
about all four of the frequently used programs, I would say.
39

So, when I’m reviewing PDF documents, I will use the markup tool to add comments
and highlight certain sections to make sure that the wording is accurate, or if
there’s questions regarding the resolution of a photo, I can send that back to
mark that up and say, hey, this needs to be a higher resolution photo, it won’t
print out correctly. So it’s just a lot of manual review of every single file
before it goes to print to make sure that everything is properly formatted, the
colors are accurate, and it will reproduce correctly, just to make sure everything
looks good for the customer. So, when I’m reviewing PDF documents, I will use
the markup tool to add comments and highlight certain sections to make sure that
the wording is accurate, or if there’s questions regarding the resolution of a
photo, I can send that back to mark that up and say, hey, this needs to be a higher
resolution photo, it won’t print out correctly. So it’s just a lot of manual
review of every single file before it goes to print to make sure that everything
is properly formatted, the colors are accurate, and it will reproduce correctly,
just to make sure everything looks good for the customer.
So, I’m using AI right now when it comes to email, so with the Google suite, there
are Google Gemini tools that help with formatting emails. I can take a very
simple format for content for email and then using that to expand those topics
and make it more of a wordy email. But I would like to be able to use AI more
in my proofreading and editing than I am right now, so probably within the next
couple months I should be able to do that.
Mathematician With 3-5 Years of Experience:
I do number theory and algebraic geometry, mostly around long-length programs
or categorical long-length programs. [In my daily work, I] read papers and write
papers.
Solving a math problem, I don’t know [whether there is any specific tool to use],
just read papers and have an intuition of what the procedure of philosophy should
be and work on it.
To be honest, I think [AI is] useless at this moment.
Mathematician With 3-5 Years of Experience:
I am studying geometric representation theory and categorical Langlands program.
My work involves coming up the problem to work on and learning math tools to help
me think of solutions.
40

I need to spend a lot of time reading papers and learning math tools. I also
need to attend the seminar to find collaborators. Then I work on my problem.
[In terms of tools,] I mainly use latex. I spend most of my time studying math.
Papers in my field can have hundreds of pages - it takes a long time to understand
and try to apply the technique.
At present, I don’t think AI has any use for mathematicians, at least for
DeepSeek and ChatGPT. One core question I am interested in is whether AI can come
up with new stuffs that haven’t been proposed before rather than solving problems
people craft.
Mathematician With 6-10 Years of Experience:
I used to study number theory, in particular, p-adic Hodge theory in arithmetic
geometry. Now, I work on the formalization of p-adic Hodge theory in Lean and
also auto-formalization and auto theorem proving.
During formalization, I elaborate, generalize, and fill gaps in mathematical
proofs. I design general fomalization frameworks and spend lots of time in Lean
coding. Lean coding involves searching theorems, formalizing statements and
filling in formalization details in the proof. The last part is the longest part.
For auto formalization and formal theorem proving, I spend most of the time coding
to establish the LLM’s training pipeline and preparing data for the training. I
use the interactive theorem prover Lean. I also use LeanSearch and other tools
related to Lean to accelerate. I use Python for LLM training and use DeepSeek for
coding and debugging.
[Here is a concrete example of my workflow:] I formalized a famous number theory
definition, called the period rings of Fontaine. I first wrote down a detailed
version of the mathematical statements and proofs I need. Splitting the whole
formalization project into several smaller goals. For each smaller goal, I
generalize and design suitable definitions and lemmas for formalization. Then
I begin actual formalization using Lean. I first write down the definitions
and state the theorems in Lean without proof. After this, I fill in the proofs
backwards, searching the library for existing theorems to use and design patterns
to mimic. During formalization, I revise the natural language proof from time to
time.
I think a primary AI tool could help me in filling in searching for theorems
and design patterns during formalization. A stronger AI tool would do
auto-formalization of theorem statements and provide suggestions in designs.
An even stronger AI tool would be able to elaborate and fill gaps in mathematical
proofs and autoformalize the human proofs. Additionally, an AI tool strong in
coding, debugging, and software engineering would help a lot in coding.
41

Aerospace Engineer With 3-5 Years of Experience:
I am an aeronautic engineer. I work in the aircraft maintenance, repairs, design
aircraft. I work with [masked].
We design aircraft, develop, test, and maintain aircrafts, and the systems
that operate within Earth’s atmosphere, such as airplane, helicopters, drones,
and missiles, though we’re not into missiles, though. Our work focuses on
making aircraft, machines, very safe and efficient, capable of flight. We use
Computer-Aided Design as a tool for Autodex, AutoCAD, Cartier, and Solidwork.
And we use Computer Fluid Dynamics. It’s ANSYS Fluent, STAR-CNC-MM. What else?
We use Finite Element Analysis. It’s a tool we use for Nastran.
[In my opinion,] AI is going to be very awesome and it’s going to make it very
easier for us because most of the time, the main problem we have is detecting
where the problem is in the engine, you know, so you have to do a lot of manual
jobs and all that. So, but if we have AI, you can possibly tell in the dash cam or
whatever, you know, you can possibly tell.
Aerospace Engineer With 1-2 Years of Experience:
I’m a current undergraduate senior and prospective master’s student in aerospace
engineering, working in guidance, navigation, and controls, so like more
simulation, computer programming side of aerospace engineering.
Most of what I do for work has traditionally been programming simulations to
evaluate vehicle performance for orbital rockets. And so most of my tasks will
be either building out a part of the simulation, programming new features or new
testing, or kind of similar types of modeling of different subsystems of the
rocket.
In general the tools or software that I use would be Visual Studio Code
for the actual programming. The companies I’ve worked at have used project
management tools like JIRA and Confluence. I think also just a lot of internet
documentation is useful. And yeah, I very occasionally would use an AI tool
like ChatGPT. Generally, my process would be to understand the requirements,
which would involve talking to my manager, then kind of going about kind of
like pre-reading or other types of information gathering necessary for the
task, actual programming, and then like unit testing and other ways of forms of
validation for the programming that I completed.
42

Honestly, I don’t use AI too much in my current workflow. I think that the only
time that it could come up would be if I’m running into some type of error or bug
in my program that I can’t find, or kind of a quick piece of code that I could look
up how to do, but it’s easier to just ask a AI model to generate. But honestly, I
use it very, very infrequently.
43

Skill # Supported Tasksin WORKBankAverageWage RankAverage RequiredHuman Agency Rank
Organizing, Planning, and Prioritizing Work: Developing specific goals and plans toprioritize, organize, and accomplish your work. 6 11 1
Training and Teaching Others: Identifying the educational needs of others, developingformal educational or training programs or classes, and teaching or instructing others.4 21 2
Staffing Organizational Units: Recruiting, interviewing, selecting, hiring, andpromoting employees in an organization. 6 6 3
Updating and Using Relevant Knowledge: Keeping up-to-date technically andapplying new knowledge to your job. 19 2 4
Developing Objectives and Strategies: Establishing long-range objectives andspecifying the strategies and actions to achieve them. 17 3 5
Guiding, Directing, and Motivating Subordinates: Providing guidance and directionto subordinates, including setting performance standards and monitoring performance.49 4 6
Judging the Qualities of Objects, Services, or People: Assessing the value,importance, or quality of things or people. 47 5 7
Communicating with Supervisors, Peers, or Subordinates: Providing information tosupervisors, coworkers, and subordinates by telephone, in written form, e-mail, or inperson. 35 12 8
Providing Consultation and Advice to Others: Providing guidance and expert adviceto management or other groups on technical, systems-, or process-related topic56 9 9
Thinking Creatively: Developing, designing, or creating new applications, ideas,relationships, systems, or products, including artistic contributions.117 7 10
Interpreting the Meaning of Information for Others: Translating or explaining whatinformation means and how it can be used. 16 13 11
Making Decisions and Solving Problems: Analyzing information and evaluatingresults to choose the best solution and solve problems. 52 10 12
Monitoring Processes, Materials, or Surroundings: Monitoring and reviewinginformation from materials, events, or the environment, to detect or assess problems.40 8 13
Assisting and Caring for Others: Providing personal assistance, medical attention,emotional support, or other personal care to others such as coworkers, customers, orpatients. 7 26 14
Getting Information: Observing, receiving, and otherwise obtaining information fromall relevant sources. 58 15 15
Monitoring and Controlling Resources: Monitoring and controlling resources andoverseeing the spending of money. 23 25 16
Analyzing Data or Information: Identifying the underlying principles, reasons, orfacts of information by breaking down information or data into separate parts.89 1 17
Selling or Influencing Others: Convincing others to buy merchandise/goods or tootherwise change their minds or actions. 8 16 18
Documenting/Recording Information: Entering, transcribing, recording, storing, ofmaintaining information in written or electronic/magnetic form.177 14 19
Evaluating Information to Determine Compliance with Standards: Using relevantinformation and individual judgment to determine whether events or processes complywith laws, regulations, or standards. 26 17 20
Communicating with People Outside the Organization: Communicating with peo-ple outside the organization, representing the organization to customers, the public,government, and other external sources. The information can be exchanged in person,in writing, or by telephone or e-mail.
8 22 21
Processing Information: Compiling, coding, categorizing, calculating, tabulating,auditing, or verifying information or data. 41 20 22
Estimating the Quantifiable Characteristics of Products, Events, or Information:Estimating sizes, distances, and quantities; or determining time, costs, resources, ormaterials needed to perform a work activity. 14 23 23
Performing Administrative Activities: Performing day-to-day administrative taskssuch as maintaining information files and processing paperwork.24 18 24
Performing for or Working Directly with the Public: Performing for people or dealingdirectly with the public. This includes serving customers in restaurants and stores, andreceiving clients or guests. 8 24 25
Scheduling Work and Activities: Scheduling events, programs, and activities, as wellas the work of others. 10 27 26
Establishing and Maintaining Interpersonal Relationships: Developing constructiveand cooperative working relationships with others, and maintaining them over time.1 19 27
Table 8: Full descriptions of skills covered by the WORKBank database.
44

Concept Percentage of Summaries
Lack of trust in accuracy, reliability or capability 45.0%
Fear of job replacement 23.0%
Lack of AI’s human qualities or capabilities 16.3%
AI not applicable or useful to specific work 15.6%
Table 9: Identified concepts with the seed prompt “The top most common fears that workers
have about AI automation in their work”.
Concept Percentage of Summaries
Role-based support 23.1%
Assistantship 23.0%
Automation 16.5%
Separation of Tasks between AI and Humans 12.0%
Table 10: Identified concepts with the seed prompt “If workers want AI to help, what type
of imagined partnership with AI do they prefer”.
45